*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; FRIDAY, MAY 5, 1995 9:03 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted; Maya Hamburger,
Esquire, appearing on behalf of Marguerite Thomas.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Good morning, counsel. Miss Hamburger.

*MS. HAMBURGER:* Good morning, your Honor. May I address the Court?

*THE COURT:* You may.

*MS. HAMBURGER:* Maya Hamburger representing Marguerite Thomas. Miss
Thomas was scheduled to testify this morning. During the week Mr. Darden
and I talked about a more convenient time and we decided to put it over,
with the Court's permission, to June 16.

*THE COURT:* All right. Any comment, Mr. Darden?

*MR. DARDEN:* No, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Then, counsel, I will order you and your client
to appear then on that date and bench warrant will be issued and
continued to be held to that date. Thank you, counsel.

*MS. HAMBURGER:* Thank you, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. The record should reflect the presence of the
Defendant with his counsel, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Neufeld, Mr. Scheck, Mr.
Blasier. The People are represented by Mr. Darden and Mr. Goldberg. The
jury is not present. Counsel, anything else we need to take up before we
invite the jurors to join us?

*MR. BLASIER:* No.

*THE COURT:* All right. Deputy Magnera, let's have the jurors, please.
And do we have a problem with that easel in the way there.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Yes, your Honor. I will move it straightaway.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. All right. The record should reflect that we have now been
rejoined by what appears to be our jury. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Matheson, would you resume the witness
stand, please.

/Gregory Matheson, The witness on the stand at the time of the evening
adjournment, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* Good morning again, Mr. Matheson.

*MR. MATHESON:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* You are reminded, sir, you are still under oath. And Mr.
Goldberg, you may conclude your redirect examination.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you, your Honor.

*_REDIRECT EXAMINATION (RESUMED) BY MR. GOLDBERG_*

*__MR. GOLDBERG:* Go morning, Mr. Matheson.

*MR. MATHESON:* Good morning.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, before we get back into the blood
vial again, you were asked some questions regarding reporting of EAP
results in general and you said something to the effect that if it is an
inclusion, in other words, if you have an EAP type B and it includes the
suspect, that you will report that generally as an inclusion. Can you
explain that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I can. As a matter of fact, it doesn't matter
whether it was a suspect or victim or whatever. We are making a
comparison to an individual and a stain. I made the differentiation as
to whether or not I give that disclaimer about the potential degradation
route of the EAP. I divide it between an inclusion versus an exclusion
and the reason for that is, is as has been previously mentioned,
particularly in conventional serological analysis, a result of that
analysis is not conclusive, it does not say that this blood sample could
have come from this person and nobody else. It is merely, you know,
includes them in a certain percentage of the population that could have
left a stain. And an exclusion is an absolute statement. If I am making
an exclusion, I am saying this blood could not have come from that
person. If the exclusion is based on an EAP b, then I have concerns with
it because I am aware that it can degrade from a BA, that there is
another possibility.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm going to object to the narrative response.

*THE COURT:* State the question, counsel.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, why is it that you would distinguish between an
exclusion and an inclusion for the purposes of this EAP B type marker?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, because in the case of conventional serology it is
not a definitive answer. An inclusion does not specifically say this
blood came from this person and nobody else, as opposed to exclusion
where it is an absolute statement. If I am saying this blood could not
have come from somebody, that is my statement. It is an absolute.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And sir, during the course of your years at the
serology unit in the Scientific Investigations Division, have you ever
had any recitation of making exclusions when that is what you see on
your electrophoretogram?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm not totally sure I understand. Do you mean have I
hesitated making an exclusion if I see a B?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No. In other words, just in general, when something is
an exclusion, do you report it as an exclusion?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, we were talking about the blood vial chart that the
Defense used yesterday and some of the transactions involving item no.
17. Do you recall that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, I was asking you about various pipetters that are
used. Did you bring to Court the type of pipetter that we were talking
about that I referred to as a pipette-man, a mechanical type pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I brought one of those.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you show us what that looks like?

*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough, can I get you to move this easel back about
a foot.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* We are obstructing the view of some of the jurors here.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. This--what I'm holding in my hand happens to be
a pipette-man brand, what we call a pipetter or reusable pipetter. It
allows you to set the amount that you want to deliver and you draw it up
into a disposal tip--

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, you are going to have to angle
yourself differently here.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm sorry.

*MR. MATHESON:* The unit is reusable because that is where you set the
amount, but it has a tip on the end of it. That is what you are actually
drawing the fluid into. They come in different sizes, you know, from
very, very fine to this one happens to hold a maximum of one milliliter,
and you depress the plunger, draw up your fluid and then press it again
to deliver it. When you are done with that sample, there is another
plunger on the back that releases the tip from the unit and then that is
discarded.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So you discard those tips instead of autoclaving them or
somehow sanitizing them to reuse them?

*MR. MATHESON:* They are not reused.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why not? Why don't you reuse them in serology?

*MR. MATHESON:* Because at that point they have another sample in it. It
would be inappropriate to use a previously used item like that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And with the tip, when you discard it, how do you
discard it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the mechanics of it, like I said, is there is a
plunger on it. We have biological waste, things on the different lab
benches, and you don't touch it or anything. It is as simple as just,
you know, sticking this towards the biological waste and then releasing
it, and it is disposed of.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you calculate, when you do this procedure, the
amount of blood that is left in and on the outside of the pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, could we possibly take a picture of the
pipetter and introduce that as an exhibit, because I don't want to
introduce the pipetter itself?

*MR. BLASIER:* I would object and ask that the pipetter be introduced.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It is a $300.00 item so we prefer to--

*THE COURT:* Well, counsel, his case; his exhibit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can we bring it over here?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* 300 bucks for that thing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually I think that particular model is about that or
a little more. There are some cheaper, but they are quite expensive.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, in the pipette tube there is what appears
to be a little white stopper. Maybe that is probably not the correct
terminology, but you know what I'm referring to in the end of the--in
the plastic portion of the pipette tip?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. It is up towards the larger opening or where it
attaches to the pipetter.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is that for?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is specifically in there, particularly when you are
dealing with biological materials, because if you, as you are drawing
the fluid up inside the tip, if you do it too quickly, the possibility
exists, because you are actually forming a suction and pulling it,
spraying small particles that can make their way up into the part of the
pipetter yourself that you reuse, so that plug in there allows the air
to pass through but does not allow any of the biological product to pass.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, I would like to show you next what we
have previously marked as 163-F for identification, and can you hold
that up so the jurors can see it and tell us what that is.

*MR. MATHESON:* What this is, is an example of two glass disposable
pipettes that we use. One of them has somewhere along the line gotten
its tip broken off, but I made reference to a type of disposable one.
They are not calibrated. You don't know how much you are drawing up or
how much you are delivering. You place a small rubber bulb on the top,
depress the bulb, place it into the fluid and let the bulb up and it
sucks up the fluid into it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So we don't actually have the bulb attachment on
these particular items?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And the bulb attachment I take it just creates some
suction type effect in the disposable pipetter to draw the blood into
the pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you use any of these types of disposable
pipetters, the glass ones, in the work that you did in conjunction with
item 17?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how much blood, if you are drawing a milliliter,
say, is going to be filled into the pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* Very roughly probably between a third and two-thirds. I
believe a milliliter would fall somewhere around in there, but I'm not
totally sure of that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So you are estimating--

*MR. BLASIER:* Object and move to strike, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, can you give us your best estimate as to where a
milliliter would be in this vial and just tell us the parameters of your
margin of error?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, have you ever drawn a milliliter into one of these
pipetters before?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm sure I have approximately at some point.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And when you do this routinely, do you pay very,
very close attention to exactly where it is?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. Like I mentioned, this is not a calibrated
instrument. It is just for removing some fluid and delivering it
somewhere else.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you say it is not calibrated, what do you mean
by that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there is no marks on it to indicate different
volume levels. It is merely a device to transfer some fluid from point a
to point b.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when you used this on the reference vial 17, can
you give us an estimate, to the best of your abilities, as to how much
of the disposable pipetter was actually occupied by blood from item 17?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation or recollection.

*THE COURT:* What time are we talking about? Which incident?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, you did it on the 27th I think; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And can you tell us--

*MR. MATHESON:* I have no independent recollection of that particular
moment and I don't pay attention to exactly how much is drawn each time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So we have no way of then being able to
reconstruct with any high degree of accuracy exactly what that amount is?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that correct? Now, Mr. Matheson, when you perform
this function, what do you do with the amount of blood that is left on
the inside and outside of the disposable pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is discarded.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why don't you make some effort to try and recover
that and return it to the blood vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, you are going to--there is no reason to. You have
a blood vial that has quite a bit of blood in it in comparison to what
we eventually end up using for our testing. There is plenty left for
additional ones. You use that, draw some up. You don't throw it away
full or something. You use your bulb, squirt out as much as you can, and
discard the rest.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, I would like to put the pipette-man up on the elmo
so that we can print this photograph. Apparently we need to do that
mechanically. Do we have to lower the--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* While that is printing, can I continue to ask questions?

*THE COURT:* You may.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, within the Scientific Investigations
Division are there any type of other pipetters, other than the two that
we have discussed today, which are used in taking blood from reference
vials?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is this other type?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is just another type of disposable pipette. It is
made out of plastic rather than glass.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, when we have the picture printed, can I mark
that as People's next in order? I guess it is 226.

*THE CLERK:* 227.

*THE COURT:* 227.

/(Peo's 227 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And Mr. Matheson, would there be any problem with us
introducing the actual tip of the pipette-man as an exhibit?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can we have that? Maybe we can have the tip of the
pipette-man as 228.

*THE COURT:* All right. People's 228, the disposable pipetter.

/(Peo's 228 for id = disposable pipetter)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, did you bring an example of this other pipetter
to Court with you this morning?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you show us that?

*MR. MATHESON:* This is a sample of one of the other type of pipetters
that are used by--in our laboratory. It is--all in one unit. As opposed
to the glass one which had a separate bulb on the top, this one has one
built into it and it works the same way as the glass one. You squeeze
the top, stick it into the fluid, let it out, release the top, draws it
up inside of it and then you squeeze it again to deliver it where you want.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which division uses this? Toxicology?

*MR. MATHESON:* They do mainly, but it is occasionally used in serology.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in using this item to draw blood, what is the
procedure in the laboratory with respect to what you do with the blood
that stays on the inside or clings on the outside during the transaction?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, similar to the glass disposable pipette and the
disposal tips on the pipetter, once you have squeezed it and delivered
as much as you can out of it, this is discarded in a biohazard waste
disposal.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why isn't any further effort tried to be made to
retrieve whatever is clinging to the inside and outside of the pipetter
in order to return it to its vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Again, it is not seen as being necessary to return every
little microliter of blood that is being pulled out of a liquid blood tube.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So it is just thrown away and lost forever?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And do you have any personal knowledge with
respect to the testing that was done in serology--in toxicology, I
believe, on June the 20th, with respect to exactly how much blood was
pipetted into one of these pipetters?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you know how much blood remained on the inside
and outside of the pipetter after that transaction was complete?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So Mr. Matheson, we have no way of being able to
reconstruct with precision exactly how much blood was actually tossed
out during that transaction; is that true?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So all of these numbers that were placed on the Defense
chart, were they exact numbers or approximations?

*MR. MATHESON:* They would all be approximations.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did any of those numbers take into account the
amounts that are lost during the transactions dealing with the blood? In
other words, on pipetters, on gloves, on chem wipes and the like?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I don't believe they did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So the Defense chart is therefore incomplete and
inaccurate; is that correct?

*THE COURT:* Counsel, that is an argumentative question. And which board
are you referring to? Which exhibit?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Referring to the exhibit that has been marked, if I can
see it, as 11--

*THE CLERK:* 39.

*THE COURT:* 1139.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* --39.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is the Defense board accurate?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I don't believe so.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, also, umm--well, I will get into that later. Let's
start up again with the June--excuse me, the September the 30th
transaction where you testified that you delivered one milliliter of
blood to Mr. Ragle.

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you said "delivered one milliliter of blood," what
did you mean by that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That rather than just estimating, I used a pipetter,
either like the one I described--like I say, we have a couple other
different brands that--they work basically the same. They just look
differently--used that same type of tip, set the pipetter to one
milliliter and transferred that amount from the blood vial into a
microcentrifuge tube that we have talked about before, the small conical
plastic tube.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And Mr. Matheson, could you place a one milliliter
sticker on the Defense blood vial chart.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/ directly above the 2.6?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, is the one milliliter that is
represented there an exact measure or an approximate?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is approximation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as mentioned before, even though the pipetter is
set and I believe that I delivered approximately one milliliter into
this microcentrifuge tube, there is going to be a small amount that is
going to be lost. When you remove the cap, it is going to be clinging to
the sides of the tip that is going to be discarded.

*THE COURT:* I think we have heard this now about six times.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But we are going to go all the way up the chart, your Honor.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, in order for this to be accurate,
therefore, shouldn't the chart reflect that it is an approximation as
opposed to an exact precise figure?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* It is argumentative as well. Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is there a symbol that you use in science when you are
talking about measurements for the purposes of showing something is
approximation?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And can you write that symbol on the one milliliter
portion just to signify that?

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*THE COURT:* Before we do that--

*JUROR NO. 1492:* I can't see it.

*THE COURT:* 1492 indicates she can't see. And Mr. Blasier, do you have
any objection to the Prosecution marking on your board?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm just going to mark my tabs. I'm not going to mark
their board.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* 1492.

*JUROR NO. 1492:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. MATHESON:* Again, you will be marking--it is just kind of a
squiggle that is an indication of approximation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when the one milliliter was put on for this
transaction on the Defense board, was that squiggle there?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it was not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, I would like to direct your attention next to the
date of June the 27th when you did some testing--

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* --as to item 17. How much did you use? And when I say
"use," I'm talking not only about what was consumed in the tests, but in
total.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, asked and answered, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* We have asked this question already.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I believe you testified it was between .5 milliliters
and one milliliter is that correct?

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained. That is leading. You have asked this
question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Let's take the higher of the two sums; one milliliter.
Is that an exact sum or approximation?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No, that--

*THE COURT:* Don't argue with me, counsel.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, could you have used as much as one
milliliter in total with respect to that transaction?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Leading as well. Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How much is the maximum amount you could have used in
connection with that transaction?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Conservatively about one milliliter.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Is that an exact figure or an estimate?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is approximation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And can you place another milliliter on the board and
also place one of the squiggles on it to indicate approximation.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you use the term "conservatively," Mr.
Matheson, did you mean that it could be slightly more than that or
slightly less than that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you mean when you said "conservatively"?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe the question was a maximum amount I could have
used. I could have been a little bit higher than that which I why I said
conservatively one milliliter.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Could it have also been less?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Move to strike, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, at the time that you--there was a
period of time when you spoke to Mr. Ragle about this transaction; is
that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* At that time did you have a clear independent
recollection as to exactly what you did in terms of removing blood from
the vial for your testing on the 27th?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And were you trying to make clear mental notes of that
at the time on the 27th?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I was not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, directing your attention next to the date of June
the 25th that you testified about, on that date Mr. Yamauchi did some
testing; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, he did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And according to the records that you previously read,
did he state that he used .75 or did he have one of the squiggles in his
notes?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe there was an approximation mark on it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, when the Defense put their sticker on the
chart, did their sticker for that contain the approximation that Mr.
Yamauchi wrote in his notes?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So was the sticker from the Defense an accurate
representation of what was reflected in Mr. Yamauchi's records?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was the sticker correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* As for what was written in the notes, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, could you now place a .75 sticker on the chart and
give us an approximation--one of the approximation signs.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, could we have permission to lower the chart
a little at this time for my next set of questions, since the bottom has
become slightly less relevant?

*THE COURT:* Slightly.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Either that or we are going to need a pole.

*THE COURT:* All right. How about right there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the next date, June the 20th, did
you place a sticker on when the Defense was questioning you for .70, to
your recollection?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I believe we did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you know where that number comes from?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was reflective of what toxicology did. I am not aware
of the exact number.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But did--did you find an actual record that contained
that .70?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't believe so, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you have any personal knowledge of exactly how
that .70 was arrived at?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Are any of your measures that you do in the
laboratory accurate to within .1 milliliters, generally?

*MR. MATHESON:* Any measurement?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, measurements of blood from a vial in connection
with transactions such as the ones that they do in toxicology?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't believe so, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So this .07, wherever it came from then, is not an
exact figure; is that correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Speculative. Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, based upon your understanding of the practices in
toxicology, is that an exact figure as in .70000?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, do you have any personal knowledge of how exact
that figure is?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So at this point we have no way of reconstructing or you
have no way of reconstructing whether it was .7 or .8 or .9 or .5, do you?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you have any personal knowledge of whether it was any
of those sums?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Different question. Only slightly, though.

*MR. MATHESON:* The--what I know about the .7 is what was discussed here
in the courtroom the other day.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No personal knowledge?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Well, let's just take the .7, if we have one,
and put that back up on the blood vial chart.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. MATHESON:* And adding onto it the approximation sign.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you have any personal knowledge as to how much
would have been lost in the transaction relating to this .7 milliliters,
if it was .7 milliliters?

*MR. MATHESON:* For just this one transaction, no, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, Mr. Matheson, going to the next date of
June the 14th, according to your records that you looked at yesterday
during cross-examination, did Mr. Yamauchi use one milliliter for
swatching, approximately one milliliter?

*MR. MATHESON:* Approximately one, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in his notes do you have one of the squiggles to
indicate it was an approximation?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe so, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you placed the sticker on the Defense chart did it
contain one of those squiggles that was contained in Mr. Yamauchi's notes?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was their chart correct in that regard?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, can you now place a sticker on the
chart for one milliliter and again place one of the transaction symbols
on it.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* One of the approximation symbols, rather?

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, with respect to each one of the
transactions that we have just testified to and that you testified to on
cross-examination, the five transactions, did you duplicate those
transactions last night when you went back to the laboratory after your
testimony in Court?

*MR. MATHESON:* I duplicated the actions that would be associated with
that type of transaction as they have been described here.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I'm going to object to any further testimony
on this as improper--doesn't mirror the conditions that we know.

*THE COURT:* Called foundation, counsel.

*MR. BLASIER:* No foundation, sorry.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is just my first question, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* I know. I haven't heard anything else so I will take that
as a premature objection.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, when you say you duplicated them,
let's start with the September the 30th working our way down from bottom
to top. September 30th transaction what did you do?

*MR. MATHESON:* What I wanted to do was reproduce the way one milliliter
of blood would be removed from the vial and then placed in another
microcentrifuge tube and released. So I took a pipetter, set it to one
milliliter, removed the cap of the blood vial like I would using gloves
and a chem wipe, lay it on the counter, used the pipetter, removed one
milliliter. And rather than delivering it to something else, I delivered
it back into the tube and then discarded the tip, recapped the blood
vial and that was the completion of that transaction.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you started did you have a certain amount of blood
in the blood vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. Prior to doing any of this, I, like I described
earlier, placed a similar blood vial next to it that was empty, putting
them on a table, adding water to it until it was--you know, to the same
height, capped that one and set it aside and marked it as a starting volume.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Isn't there a certain margin of error in that measuring
technique as well?

*MR. MATHESON:* Still you are using your eye, even though you have it on
a flat surface, using your eye to fill it up as close as possible to the
same level, and there is a slight error associated with that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* For what purpose were you doing this, by the way?

*MR. MATHESON:* I had really no strong idea of how much blood might be
lost during the course of a number of opening and closing transactions
with a blood vial and I was curious to find out if it was measurable.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have any experiments been done, to your knowledge,
previously to this to try to calculate what is lost in the transactions,
the various transactions associated with the blood vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not to my knowledge.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, after you did this replication of the
transaction that--well, let me ask you a few other questions first. In
terms of the transaction that you replicated as to the September the
30th transaction, what did you do with the one milliliter of blood that
was pipetted out?

*MR. MATHESON:* I returned it back to the blood vial.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You mean after you were all finished?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I didn't--what I wanted to do was capture the
amount that would be used during the transfer process.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I see.

*MR. MATHESON:* If I had taken that milliliter of blood, put it into
another container and then returned at a later time or tried to measure
that other container, it would have been additional error because there
would have been something clinging to it that was not part of the
transaction we are trying to duplicate. So I merely, like I said,
removed the one milliliter, pulled the pipette out of the blood and then
like I said, depressed the plunger and returned the blood to the same
blood vial.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did do you with the pipette tip, your gloves and
the chem wipe?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, at that point I didn't change my gloves because
I'm working all with the same item. The pipette tip and the chem wipe
that was used to remove the cap, put it back on again at that point, was
just placed into a pile in front of me and eventually made its way into
a biohazard container.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, let's go to the June the 27th transaction.
What do you do to replicate the blood that you removed from the vial
personally for your testing on that date?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in that case, this is the testing that I did, and
like I have testified, I don't really remember whether I discarded after
removing a portion of the blood to spin down for the ABO test, putting
it into a microcentrifuge tube, I don't know if I discarded that
complete with all the blood in it or if I made an attempt to return it
back to the blood vial. Wanting to be as conservative as possible, I
assumed I returned it to the blood vial. So what I did again was took
the vial, removed the cap using the chem wipe and gloves, like I have
described, I used one of the glass dispo pipettes because that is the
type I use, inserted it into the blood vial and transferred some of that
blood into a microcentrifuge tube. I then capped that tube, put it into
a centrifuge to spin it down. I wanted to actually start the process of
running an ABO test. And placed the dirty disposable pipette, I think I
testified to before, in a test-tube that was sitting also alongside. So
now it is just being held there--

*MR. BLASIER:* Object to the narrative response.

*THE COURT:* Ask another question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you do next?

*MR. MATHESON:* The tube was done centrifuging, brought it back to my
work area, removed three drops of serum and three drops of cells, just
as if I was running an ABO test. I then used the glass disposable
pipette that I had before, sucked up as much of the blood in the
centrifuge tube as I could, returned that to the blood vial, recapped
the blood vial and discarded all the items that had been used during
that process.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, when you say "all the items," you mentioned a
microcentrifuge tube, a disposable pipette, a test-tube and a chem wipe.
Have I missed anything?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. There is one thing that I left out of that and that
is a very small capillary tube that is used to deliver the small drops
for the test.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And the capillary tube and as to those five
items, what did you do with those?

*MR. MATHESON:* They were--again, they were just placed in a pile in
front of me to be discarded.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the June 25th transaction, where
Mr. Yamauchi, according to his notes, used approximately .75
milliliters, what did you do to replicate that?

*MR. MATHESON:* In that particular--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* In that transaction I used a disposable pipette, rather
than the calibrated one, because that is what is used in a situation
like this. We are not removing an exact amount. Reopened the cap, again
using the chem wipe and the gloves, removed a portion into the
disposable pipette, pulled it out of the tube and then returned as much
of it as I could back into the vial, recapped the vial and set it aside
and then disposed of the disposable pipette.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, let's go through all of the items that you
used here that were disposed. There is a disposable pipette, a, did you
say, microcentrifuge tube?

*MR. MATHESON:* For the June 25th?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, just the disposable pipette. That is it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is the only thing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And what did you do with the disposable pipette?

*MR. MATHESON:* Disposed of it. Put it on the pile of the stuff that was
eventually going to get thrown away.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did that still have some blood on it or residue of blood
when you put it in the disposable pile?

*MR. MATHESON:* It has some adhering to the inside and a little bit on
the outside of the tip.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the June the 20th transaction in
toxicology, what did you do to replicate that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Basically the same thing that I just described as the
one that Mr. Yamauchi was involved in, but rather than using the glass
disposable pipette, I used the plastic one like I had shown to you
before, because that is the implement that they used.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have you worked with a plastic disposable pipettes
before?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did the plastic disposable pipettes have the same amount
of blood clinging to them, after you are finished, as the glass ones?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is hard to tell by just looking at them, but just
visually it looks like it has a little bit more, but it is not measurable.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation. Move to strike.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So what were the items--did you use the chem wipe again
in order to open up the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* A different one, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And you used the disposable pipetter?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what else did you use?

*MR. MATHESON:* In that transaction that was it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you do with those two items?

*MR. MATHESON:* They were added to the pile of things that are going to
be disposed of.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then, sir, did you do something to replicate the
June 14th--I'm sorry, as to those two items, did they still have some
blood on them when you added them to the trash pile?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you do something to replicate the June 14th
transaction?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What?

*MR. MATHESON:* This is very similar to the first one that was described
in the fact that it was mentioned that about one milliliter was used for
swatching. I used a calibrated or repeatable pipette like we showed you,
the pipette-man, probably used a different brand. I again set the vial
up, used the chem wipe, removed the cap, set that down on the table,
used the pipetter to draw up one milliliter of blood, pulled it out of
the vial and then returned what was in the pipette tip back to the vial,
recapped the vial and disposed of the tip.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you do with the chem wipe that you used for the
purposes of opening up the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was added to the pile of things to be disposed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did both of those two items have some blood on them?

*MR. MATHESON:* The chem wipe and the tip, yes, they both still had some.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, up to this point you hadn't changed your gloves; is
that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was this--this was the last transaction that you replicated?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Although--did you actually do it in the order that I
went through or did you do it in the other order?

*MR. MATHESON:* I did it in the reverse order.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, Mr. Matheson, what did you do with the gloves
that you were wearing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, when I was all done I removed them and added them
to the pile that was going to be disposed of.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So by now you had a fair pile of disposable items that
you had used in replicating these various transactions that had blood on
them?

*MR. MATHESON:* I had--yeah, I had a pile of trash in front of me.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did do you with that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That was gathered up and placed into a biohazard trash
receptacle that we have.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was there some blood on each one of those
disposable items that you threw away?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, as a result of this, Mr. Matheson, did you
calculate how much blood was lost in the transactions, in other words,
as a result of using these various things that were thrown away in the
garbage?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, upon completion of all of these I repeated the
measurement step that I did at the beginning, taking a second empty
blood vial, placing it alongside of the vial that has the blood in it,
filling it to where I could see looked like the same level, and I placed
the blood vial--and now I had a before--beginning and a completed two
blood vials that contained equivalent amounts of water to the blood that
I saw in the tube at that time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was the difference?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was approximately .4 to .5 milliliters or about half
a milliliter.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, sir, with respect to that figure, is that an exact
figure or is that also approximation?

*MR. MATHESON:* Definitely not exact; it is approximation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if you were writing it out would you also put a
squiggly in front of it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I would.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, the substance that you used for this, was it
actually blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, when you were doing these series of
transactions, were you trying to be extra sloppy in order to spill as
much blood as possible? I mean how were you doing it?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How were you doing it?

*MR. MATHESON:* I was doing it as close to the way as I would normally
do it when I'm doing case work.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And when you are giving this figure, are you
saying that that is the amount that would always be lost in this series
of transactions or just your best effort to give us an approximation?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is an approximation based on the tests I ran yesterday.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, can you put up a five milliliter item
onto our board and place one of the squigglys on it to indicate that it
is an approximation.

*MR. MATHESON:* It is a .5 milliliter.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* .5?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm going to put the squiggly on down here. /(Witness
complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, with respect to the 2.6 milliliters
itself, you took that measurement, didn't you?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you used the method that you have previously
described with filling up the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So is that an exact measure or again does that have a
margin of error to it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is not exact. It is an approximation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if we wanted to make this chart correct, we should
also probably have a squiggly in front of that; is that true?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* I don't want to write on the Defense chart, but can
you just add a little squiggly on to the 2.6 milliliters.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, at this time I would like to mark as
People's next in order two photos. I have shown them to counsel
yesterday. One is of what appears to be the blood vial and it is
standing up with a person's finger on the top, as People's 2--

*THE COURT:* 229, I believe.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* --29.

/(Peo's 229 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And as 228 a picture of what appears to be a
microcentrifuge tube.

*THE COURT:* 230 you mean.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And it is also standing up.

*THE COURT:* 230.

/(Peo's 230 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* I would like to place 229 on the elmo first.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

/*MR. GOLDBERG:* We are going to have to lower our blood vial chart
again. (Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, directing your attention to the vial that
has been marked--excuse me--the photograph of the vial that has been
marked 228 vial--

*THE COURT:* I think the photo was 229.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You are right, your Honor. I'm sorry.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* 229. Actually it is sort of hard to tell for some reason
on the elmo, but in this picture is this vial actually standing up?

*MR. MATHESON:* (No audible response.)

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you need to see the picture?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It appears it is standing on--well, it is. It is
standing on the bottom part of it with the cap on the top.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, was there an occasion where the blood
vial was measured by someone else in your presence using a ruler?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And a note pad?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Who did that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Mark Taylor.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is he a person that works for SID?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, he is not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Who does he work for?

*MR. MATHESON:* He is a criminalist that works for himself. He is a private.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was it your understanding he was retained by the Defense
in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when he was measuring this, can you tell us what
kind of a ruler he used?

*MR. BLASIER:* I would object as irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* It is just a plastic ruler approximately 15 inches long.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why is the blood vial standing on a pad of paper?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that particular ruler, like a lot of rulers, the
measurement does not start at the end, it is actually inset
three-sixteenths of an inch or a quarter--if you ding up the end or
knock up the end, it doesn't affect the marker or beginning point. So an
attempt was made, by using the note pads, to bring it up and account for
that little bit of the, ruler so the bottom of the tube was at the same
height as the bottom of the ruler or the beginning mark.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, doesn't that seem like an extremely
inaccurate way of measuring the blood vial?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is this the referable way, from a forensic standpoint,
to measure the blood vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is not the way--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Move to strike the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* It was not my choice to do it that way. I preferred the
equivalent amount of water.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, when you actually did your own
measurement using the technique of equivalent amounts of water, did you
actually have as to stand the blood vial up similar as is depicted in
this photograph?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you measured that did you take into account the
amount of blood that is clinging to the inside of the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. I was measuring the amount that had collected in the
bottom.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if you look at the top of this vial there appears to
be something a little less than--hold on for a second.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* --a quarter of a--looks like it is a little less than
a quarter of an inch or approximately a quarter of an inch of blood that
is stuck up toward the top of the vial?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, sir, how much--let me take a look at the
photograph. Maybe I can show the witness the photograph because it is
hard to tell on the elmo. May I approach for a second?

*THE COURT:* You may.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* I think that is the centimeter scale.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You are right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you tell us how much the measure is or the
approximate measure is of blood that is up toward the top of the vial?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is there a ruler right next to it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And using the ruler, can you tell us approximately how
much blood you can see in the darkened area at the top of the vial?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, when you saw the vial was there blood that was
stuck up at the top of the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally there is. I don't remember if there was on this
particular instant.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Move to strike, nonresponsive.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why is there blood stuck up at the top of the vial? How
does it get there?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, many times--well, usually when the blood vial is
being stored it is in an envelope. A lot of times it is upright,
sometimes it could be upside down or falling on its side. The blood
comes in contact with all parts of the inside of the tube and some of it
is going to adhere up around the stopper.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you do your measurement of the 2.6 milliliters
after the mark Taylor measurement, to your recall?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't remember. I believe it was before.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, with respect to--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you know whether there was any more removal of
blood between the Mark Taylor measurement and your measurement?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not to my knowledge, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you measured the vial, did you take into account
any blood that was up around the top of the vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* All I did was measure the part that had settled down in
the bottom of the vial.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And Mr. Matheson, are you willing to come to any
estimate as to how much blood in this particular picture is at the top
of the vial on the inside?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I am not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that because you have never made any scientific
inquiry to try to find that out?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why aren't you willing to estimate?

*MR. MATHESON:* Because I'm not even sure how we would go about
measuring that. It adheres to the vial or the cap when you pull it off
the cap. It may adhere to the cap it may go down the side. I don't think
you could do a good measurement of that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* As a forensic scientist testifying in Court under oath,
would you be prepared to give what would just constitute a guesstimate
of that amount?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not of that amount, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, I would next like to show you the microcentrifuge
tube, the photograph of which I have marked as 230 for identification.
Sir, before I ask you about this, other than the incident in Court the
other day where you were handed a vial of water that purported to
contain eight milliliters, and poured it out and saw that it actually
measured 7.5--was it 7.5?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is what I measured when I poured it, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Other than that, have you ever tried to make any inquiry
as to how much blood will stick to the inside of a vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I have not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the microcentrifuge tube, when you
looked at the microcentrifuge tube did you attempt to measure the
amounts of blood that are stuck to the interior portion of the vial or
where the blood line itself is and also the portion up near the cap?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not. I just measure the amount that settled
towards the bottom.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And again, as a forensic scientist, would you be willing
to give us any estimation as to that amount?

*MR. MATHESON:* The amount that wasn't measured?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Right.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I would not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that for the same reasons that you testified to
previously with respect to the blood vial itself?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So there is some unknown amount in both vials that you
did not measure; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in order to represent the unknown amount, can you
just place the little white item that is in front of you onto the
Defense blood vial chart.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe we can put the blood vial chart back up.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, perhaps we could pass around a picture of
the vial and the microcentrifuge tube, because they are a little bit
difficult to see on the elmo.

*THE COURT:* 229 and 230?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. Hand them to juror no. 1, please.

/(The exhibits were passed amongst the jury.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, would you collect 229 and 230
from Deputy Russell.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, on the chart as it exists right
now, we have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 numbers and all of those are
estimations; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So would it be fair to suggest that the total number of
estimations that we have we know to be completely accurate?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What can you say with respect to the accuracy of the
total number of these estimations?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm not sure what you mean by the accuracy of estimations.

*THE COURT:* I think you are talking about the precision of measuring.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that they are all estimations. It is give or take
a little bit of blood. We don't know exactly how much was used in each
of those instances.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you agree, Mr. Matheson, that to try to
reconstruct and account for every tenth of a milliliter of blood, or
even quarter or half of a milliliter, would be a hard thing to do?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How hard would it be to try to go back and account for
every half milliliter of blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* I think it would be a very difficult thing to do, to try
and--even if you were from the beginning trying to account for every
little bit, there are aspects of this that are very difficult to measure
and it would be hard to account for every portion of blood that is used
in this type of testing.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in any past case that you are aware of has SID ever
attempted to do that, to account for every half milliliter of blood in a
test-tube?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, we have not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why not?

*THE COURT:* I think we have asked this question before. Why don't we
move on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, understanding that these numbers that
you've provided are estimations, can you calculate the total estimated
amount of blood on this chart under these--under these conditions?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* If you have a calculator, you can use that, too. It
might be faster.

*MR. MATHESON:* /(Witness complies.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the final figure that I come up with--

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, object to the question; no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* The final figure that I have by adding up the numbers
that we have up there is approximately 7.5 milliliters.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And Mr. Matheson, there is then, in addition to
that amount of blood that is occupied by what we have on this diagram,
is the white space which you have not provided us any number for; is
that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So under our estimation we have approximately 7.5 plus
this unknown amount?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, I want you to assume, hypothetically,
that at the time that the blood vial was drawn that there was an
estimation between 6.5 and 7 milliliters of blood being in the vial, or
to keep the math simple, let's assume it was 7 milliliters of blood.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, assumes fact not in evidence, improper
hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It was the same hypothetical they gave, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* No, different hypothetical.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, if you were to assume for the sake of this
hypothetical that at the time the blood was drawn there were 7
milliliters of blood--

*THE COURT:* Let me see counsel at the side bar with the reporter.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We are over at the side bar. What is the basis
of your--the good faith offer that was given by the Defense for their
hypothetical was the testimony from the preliminary hearing. What is
your good faith offer of proof that you have a 6.5 or 7?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* My good faith offer of proof is two-fold. No. 1, that as
I provided to the Defense in discovery, and as I stated on the record,
Mr. Peratis has since said that after testifying at the preliminary
hearing he went through and tried to reconstruct what he did and he did
not take precise measurements at the time that he did this. He did
measure it at all, which the Defense and that he now estimates that it
was between 6.5 and 7 milliliters of blood from the Defendant that he
drew and I'm taking the upper number.

*THE COURT:* All right. Did you provide that report to the Defense?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I provided them with my--my own notation to that effect
some time ago.

*THE COURT:* Is there a report that it is to this--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* My report that I gave to them. That is about a sentence
or two long, but yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, I would object--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* It is contrary to his testimony under oath and they
could have called them. They had him on their witness list.

*THE COURT:* We are going to see them because all of this is subject to
a motion to strike as far as the blood is concerned.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you think if the Prosecution minds if there is a
motion to strike as to the amounts in the vial? It was our position that
this never should have happened to begin with because of the errors and
inaccuracies in all of these figures, as your Honor knows.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, the way he testified at the preliminary hearing he
was positive it was between 7.9 and 8.1. He was extremely precise at
that. That is what he does for a living.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* He has never measured it in his entire career.

*THE COURT:* I want to know if he has a good faith basis to form this
hypothetical. That is all I'm interested in at this points.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* All right. The objection is overruled.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, your own margin of error, you said in visually
approximating what is in a blood vial, just visually, was upwards of 1.8
milliliters. 1.8 milliliters or more did you say?

*MR. MATHESON:* In the particular instance that we mentioned when I
estimated to begin with, I was 1.8 off, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's assume hypothetically that the blood vial in
this case had 7 milliliters at the time that it started out at the
scientific investigations--at the time that it was drawn. Would that
mean that under our hypothetical of the set of numbers that we came up
with that there would be approximately .55 milliliters of blood too much?

*MR. MATHESON:* Approximately a half a milliliter, .5, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, Mr. Matheson, when you go back to the laboratory,
are you going to launch an investigation to determine whether someone
added more of the Defendant's blood to the vial?

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, you were asked about EDTA yesterday.
Do you remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is the blood vial in this case that was used to
contain Mr. Simpson's blood in fact an EDTA vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And it is your understanding that that is an
anticoagulant; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, is it also your understanding, Mr. Matheson, that
this anticoagulant is one that can be tested for?

*MR. MATHESON:* As I mentioned, the fact that it is a chemical, there
are instruments available. I would assume they can test for it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you cause the blood vial to be sent to the FBI
along with items 13, the socks, and the items from the rear gate, for
the purposes of EDTA testing?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't believe I was directly involved with it, but it
was sent.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, move to strike; no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Do you have any personal knowledge of that being done?

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as having physically--I have seen records to that
effect.

*THE COURT:* All right. The jury is to disregard the last question and
answer.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is it your understanding, Mr. Matheson, when you
were--is it your understanding that if blood were taken from an EDTA
vial and planted somewhere, you should be able to find it?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, when you testified as to the People's
evidence disposition summary, did that reflect a transaction where
certain items were sent to the FBI for purposes of EDTA testing?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation; asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, have you heard that according to the
report of the EDTA testing--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, hypothetically, if the FBI testing showed
that there was no--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained, sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* EDTA--

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained. Ladies and gentlemen, you are to
completely disregard that last series of questions and answers regarding
EDTA.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can we approach on that, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* No, you may not. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, are you aware of any evidence of EDTA in item 13,
15, 16 or 17?

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Did you do any testing on that yourself? Yes or no?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*THE COURT:* Next question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* May I have one moment, your Honor?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, sir, do you recall answering a question on
cross-examination, a hypothetical question involving if there were EDTA
on the socks and the rear gate what effect that that would have?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I believe so.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you know what the basis for that hypothetical was?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation, calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Any others? Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are you aware of any facts that constituted the basis of
that hypothetical?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. It is not a proper question regarding hypothetical.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, if the facts of their hypothetical were changed so
as to indicate that the testing revealed the absence of EDTA--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, we are going
to take a recess, brief recess right now. Please remember all of my
admonitions to you. I'm sure you have taken them to heart. Take a recess
for fifteen minutes as far as the jury is concerned. Mr. Matheson, you
can step down.

/(At 10:15 A.M. the jury was excused and the following proceedings were
held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have it quiet, please. Mr. Goldberg, I'm
sustaining the objections because this is not the witness to testify to
EDTA testing.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, I agree with that, your Honor, and I agree that it
would have been appropriate to have sustained the objections to the
questions that I asked. But I also believe that the objections to the
questions that they asked exactly along this line, and the hypothetical
they gave exactly along this line where they stated that there was no
EDTA and if there was no EDTA would that indicate that it came from the
blood vial and the witness answered yes, should have been sustained and
they weren't. And under the doctrine that we have discussed before of
curative admissibility and the open-the-door issue, and this isn't even
open the door, I objected to them. My objections were overruled. The
People should be allowed to go into this. The jury should not be left
with the impression that there is a factual basis and a good faith basis
for counsel's questions when they know that they are contrary to the
testing that was performed by the FBI. And if the Court would like, we
can go and try and find the exact questions, and there were a series of
them, that were asked by the Defense in the record.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* We strenuously object. Mr. Goldberg just acknowledged
that he asked questions that he knew were improper, and every time even
does he turned to face the jury, and you can tell from the first three
words that they were improper and he knows they were improper and he is
experienced enough to know that. We object to that. The hypotheticals we
objected, you overruled the objections, and we were allowed to ask the
hypothetical. You have sustained all these questions. We would ask that
some appropriate sanction be imposed because he continues to ask these
questions.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg, any response? I am concerned about your
admission that you knew that those questions were improper.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, wait a minute. I have always tried to be
very candid with the Court, and in instances such as the staple issue, I
told the Court exactly what I was thinking. It would be intellectually
dishonest for me to say that giving a hypothetical to a witness of facts
relating to testing that he doesn't know of would be a proper
hypothetical question, but the Court also knows that I have disagreed
about a lot of the hypothetical questions that have been given by the
Defense and by both sides. And what I am saying is that the Court
apparently has a different view than I do as to the propriety of certain
hypothetical questions, and I am practicing law in this Court under your
Honor's rules. And if the Court allowed, and you did allow them, to ask
what now Mr. Blasier is by implication admitting he knew to be improper,
because he asked the same series of questions that I did, with one
distinction, and that is that he knew that there was no good faith basis
for his questions, and he knew that they were contrary to the testimony
that is eventually going to be introduced, then I believe under the
rules as your Honor has set them forth--and your Honor does have
discretion on this. I'm not saying the Court is wrong.

*THE COURT:* Wide discretion.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Wide discretion. If the Court has--has found in the
proper exercise of its discretion that they can ask the question, then I
can ask the question. That does not mean that I personally, as an
advocate, think that either side should have been allowed to ask, but it
means under the rules that have been imposed here by your Honor using
the discretion that is inherent with this court, that I believe that
that was a proper question with respect to the rules that have
previously been made on that issue.

*THE COURT:* The problem I have with your hypothetical, Mr. Goldberg, is
that they bring in as hearsay EDTA testing results. That is the problem.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But the way I phrased my--my--some of them may have been
phrased--

*THE COURT:* But the only EDTA question that appears to be proper in
this line of question is how much is the standard amount of EDTA in one
of these vacutainers and how much would that add to the blood volume in
this case, but apparently nobody wants to ask. That is the only obvious
question that this jury is interested in hearing. And I don't know if
you are watching the jury at all, but they are rolling their eyes every
time we get to the fifth or sixth question that has been reasked and
asked again, and this dueling hypothetical questions is really argument
at this point, counsel.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, if the Court were going to strike--

*THE COURT:* We are in recess.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Back on the record. All parties are again present. Mr.
Goldberg, you've reviewed some of the items that Mr. Blasier has presented?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes, your Honor. Your Honor, I did want to apologize on
the record for the spirited nature of my comments this morning.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg, there's no need to do that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. I did find the transcript references to the
Defense hypotheticals. I don't know whether the Court wanted to take a
look at those or entertain the possibility of the People asking any
questions at all on the subject of EDTA.

*THE COURT:* Well, let's take up the issue I want to talk about first.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. As to the items that counsel now wants to show the
Defense, many of these are beyond the scope of this witness' direct
testimony and redirect testimony and are also perhaps beyond the scope
of his expertise. Evidently, in the a-1 portion of the chart, if the
Court has a copy in front of it, and 2-B, what's being depicted there
are DQ-alpha results, in other words, DNA results, and showing patterns
of inheritance with DNA results. We haven't gone into that at all. In
fact, I never mentioned patterns of inheritance at all. The only time
that that was gone into is on cross-examination from Mr. Blasier, and I
did not even mention it directly, indirectly, in any other way during
recross. So it's beyond the scope of his expertise and--

*THE COURT:* All right. 1-A and 1-B, let's take these up one at a--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* 3-C appears to be a statement of the cathodal to anodal
pattern of degradation that's suggested by Mr. Saferstein and
Sensabaugh. I didn't show this to Mr. Matheson. So I'm not positive
whether this is correct because I didn't know whether I was allowed to.
But it's possible that I might not have an objection to that because it
could be a correct statement or a correct block diagram depicting--

*THE COURT:* It appears to be an accurate description as described in
the testimony.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's my feeling.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* 4-D appears to be containing an issue that should be
gone into with the DNA witnesses. What is trying to be depicted here is
that EAP would be found in red blood cells whereas the cells containing
the DNA do not contain EAP. This is something that can be explored
elsewhere. I did not mention it in any way during my redirect
examination. It's beyond the scope. It's beyond the scope of the
witness' expertise.

*THE COURT:* 5-E?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorney
and Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. This is dealing with DNA results and the like.
So again, same objections. Code of ethics, I don't know what the
suggestion is here that Mr. Matheson has violated the code of ethics. I
don't see anything inconsistent of course with his testimony, and it
appears to be argumentative and also, it's hearsay under 721. So I would
object to the usage of those provisions. And that it might also
necessitate bringing out other provisions of the code of ethics dealing
with the reporting of inconclusive results and showing that his
reporting of the inconclusive results is in fact consistent with the
code of ethics. So it opens up a whole new area that we haven't gone
into. As I understand it, your Honor, the remaining items here are
simply larger versions of what we've already gone over.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, as to a and b, Mr. Goldberg asked on
redirect--and I asked the court reporter to provide me with a copy of
this. They don't have the full transcript yet. So this is probably not
the page number that's going to be on the full transcript. But the
question was asked: "Now, when you were testifying on cross-examination,
at one point, you said that biological contamination, in other words,
contamination of one type of blood with another type of blood would not
change the type of the blood that was contaminated? What did you mean?
"Answer: Well, you're not going to--the type of blood isn't going to
change. It will still be what it always was. That's the nature of the
genetic markers that we deal with as a rule. So by introducing another
one, it will not change it. It may overpower it or it may degrade it or
something else like that, but it will not change it." these two charts
are demon--are--I want to ask him questions about that answer and to
demonstrate that half of the answer is inaccurate, that you can have it
overpowered or degraded like he testified and have a different type show
up. Chart number c--

*THE COURT:* How do these two charts demonstrate that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, he's already testified about, you get one allele
from mom, one allele from dad. We talked about it in the context of EAP
and DQ-alpha as well. So you know what the type of the child is by what
type of the parent is. And I'm going to ask him some questions about if
you mix some blood from person a and person B together, you're going to
get a type that's a combination of both of those, which is different
from the type of either one of him.

*THE COURT:* So you're suggesting in these charts that these mixtures
are actually mixtures of bodily fluids?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes. Blood.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* And chart no. 3-C is--that's simply the degradation chart
with--that's exactly what he testified to that Saferstein says, is
there's one other route of degradation that would give you just the
higher B band. The red blood cell chart, that's just straight science.
I'm sure Mr. Matheson knows that EAP is found in red blood cells that
don't have any DNA. Chart no. 5--

*THE COURT:* What's the relevance of this?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, because--the relevance is, you can't--you can do
all sorts of other tests other than EAP and you're never going to be
able to rule out that the EAP came from someone who was a B. The other
tests won't allow you to do that. You have to--the only way to do that
is to retest the EAP. And chart no. 5 is simply to show that if you have
fingernail scrapings, they are going to contain material obviously from
the person whose fingernails they are, including skin cells--the fingers
are made up of cells, the fingernails are made up of cells, and they
contain DNA. And you can--

*THE COURT:* So this is the same argument, that EAP is separate from DNA
testing.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yeah, similar. And then the two code of ethics provisions
I provided yesterday.

*THE COURT:* All right. The objections will be overruled. All right.
Let's--I'm sorry.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can I respond to those?

*THE COURT:* I heard the arguments.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about the issue that the Court--

*THE COURT:* All right. As to the hypothetical questions, you want to
direct my attention, Mr. Goldberg, to the location in the transcript?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm looking at page 51.

*THE COURT:* Which volume?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, it's yesterday's transcript. I don't have a volume
number.

*THE COURT:* Mrs. Robertson, would you tell Miss Olson I need the
transcript, please.

*MR. DARDEN:* Your Honor, while you're waiting, it doesn't appear that
you're going to get to the next two witnesses this morning. May I
release them? One? Two? Anybody.

*THE COURT:* Yeah, I would say that's a fair guess.

*MR. DARDEN:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* And, Mr. Goldberg, you want to direct my attention to which
one we're talking about?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm looking at line 21 on page 55.

*THE COURT:* Page 55?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Where--do you want--does the Court want me to read it or--

*THE COURT:* Why don't you read it to me.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* "Mr. Blasier: Hypothetically, Mr. Matheson, if blood
from this case from an evidence item such as from the back gate showed
the presence of a chemical EDTA, would you agree that it is consistent
with it possibly coming from a reference vial?" then there's an
objection: "That's an improper hypothetical. It's inconsistent with the
known facts. "Overruled. "Witness: As you stated it, if it was present
and if it was able to be identified in it, it is possible that it could
have come from some type of reference sample that previously contained
EDTA."

*THE COURT:* So you want to ask the hypothetical assuming the same facts
except no EDTA is found?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes. And then there was actually a second hypothetical
which I also objected to in a similar vein.

*MR. BLASIER:* And I would object to that hypothetical for lack of
foundation, the foundation being that testing can only determine whether
something--can only detect something that's there. If they get no
results on a test, that doesn't mean it's not there. If he modifies it
to that extent, then I have no problem with it.

*THE COURT:* All right. But Mr.--what's the good faith basis of your
offer, Mr. Goldberg, that there's no EDTA in--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* The good faith basis of my offer is that in reading the
FBI report, that's what it says. That is what the verbal description of
their testing says.

*THE COURT:* The verbal--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* The written description of the testing.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm sorry, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Okay. I will allow that one hypothetical question as
phrased. All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I'll phrase it almost identically to what the
Defense did except "not," having the words "not."

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* And for the record, I'm prepared to state what my good
faith basis for asking that question was. And that is that our experts
have looked at the FBI results and have said it is present.

*THE COURT:* No. I assumed, given the nature of our discussions and the
other things that have gone on, that you had a good faith basis for
asking that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* I didn't ask for that.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm sorry.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Thank you for providing that to me, but I didn't need it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, we have a discovery issue that just arose a
few seconds ago.

*THE COURT:* That appears to be so too. But let's take that up after we
finish with the jury this morning.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. I just--okay.

*THE COURT:* Sort of peeked my interest as well. All right. Deputy
Magnera, let's have the jurors, please.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Matheson, would you--where did Mr. Matheson go? Deputy Russell, I need
Mr. Matheson, please.

*DEPUTY RUSSELL:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Matheson, would you resume the witness
stand, please. All right. Mr. Goldberg, you may conclude your redirect.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Were you trying to run out on us, Mr. Matheson?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. I was standing right in front of the door.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, I just want to ask you, hypothetically, if
blood from this case--excuse me. Hypothetically, if blood from this case
from an evidence item such as from the back gate showed no presence of a
chemical EDTA, would you agree that that is inconsistent with it
possibly coming from the reference vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I would.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you very much, Mr. Matheson. Thank you, ladies and
gentlemen.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No other questions.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* Thank you, your Honor.

*_RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER_*

*__MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, would you agree that tests that are
performed to determine whether something is present or not can only
determine that if there's a certain amount of something present? In
other words, if there's something less than the sensitivity of the test,
you won't detect it, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Vague, improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. If it's below the detectability limit of that test,
you won't see it.

*MR. BLASIER:* So something--it could be present, but your test won't
show it?

*MR. MATHESON:* If it's below that level, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* I would like to have--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, your Honor, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, Mr. Blasier. Is
it possible for us to document in some way the way that the vial appears
now before counsel--

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Your Honor, it's already been done.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Oh, it's been done. I'm sorry.

*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, you were asked a number of questions about
an experiment that you performed last night. Do you recall that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, when you performed that experiment, did you
videotape or take any photographs of what you were doing?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not. I was the only one left in the lab.

*MR. BLASIER:* Did you invite anybody from the Defense to observe?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*MR. BLASIER:* And a lot of the numbers that you've used for purposes of
your demonstration are numbers based on your guess as to how someone
else may have done withdrawals at particular times, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. BLASIER:* You had no personal knowledge of how a number of the
withdrawals that you testified about were actually done, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Personal--personal knowledge, because I was involved
with at least two of them. The other ones, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, when we visited the lab in January, Mr. Taylor did
his measurements with a ruler. Do you recall that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* That was after you had done your precise measurement of
2.6 milliliters, wasn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was after I did my measurement, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Were you asked any questions at all by me or Mr. Goldberg
about any measurement that resulted from a photograph of the ruler?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. BLASIER:* When we were in the lab, were we permitted to open up the
blood and take the blood out?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, you were not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you testified previously that your records indicate
that as of June 20th, according to toxicology, there is 5.5 milliliters
in that tube, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That--that's what was in on that form, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that's as of June 20th. At that time, there had only
been one withdrawal from that blood vial that we know about, correct,
from the records?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And assuming again hypothetically that you started with
eight, Mr. Yamauchi indicated that approximately one milliliter was
taken out for typing, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Incidentally, you don't need nearly one milliliter to do
the kind of typing you did, do you?

*MR. MATHESON:* The kind of typing who did?

*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Yamauchi did on the 14th.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Not relevant, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, actually, I believe the reference was that he used
a milliliter for swatching, not just for his testing.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Now, for the type of swatching that he did, do you
need a milliliter or do you actually use a lot less?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for speculation.

*MR. BLASIER:* If you know.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, my understanding is, you use a milliliter for
those fitzco cards, the ones that we demonstrated before.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Now, would you agree that under the hypothetical,
as of June 20th, there is 1.5 milliliters, Mr. Simpson's blood, that
according to your records and assuming my hypothetical of starting with
eight, that are not there at that point?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* With all the assumptions in place, yes, it would be
approximately 1.5.

*MR. BLASIER:* And as of that date, there's only been one pipetter that
went into that tube according to the records, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And did you--in the course of your experiment, did you
determine how much you would have lost by putting a pipetter in one time
to determine how much of that 1.5 milliliters would have been used up
that way?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I didn't. Just the aggregate of all the ones.

*MR. BLASIER:* Certainly it would be an extremely small amount; would
you agree?

*MR. MATHESON:* It would be small, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you also agree that the pipetters that are
used--well, let me ask you this. How much do the pipetters that you've
demonstrated to us hold?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Which pipetters are we talking about?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, do you know what kind of pipetter Mr. Yamauchi used?

*MR. MATHESON:* For his one milliliter?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. BLASIER:* The $300 pipetter that you showed us this morning has a
plastic tip on it, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. BLASIER:* And do you know who manufactures that plastic tip?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It's called an art tip, a-r-t, but I don't know--I
can't think of the manufacturer right now.

*MR. BLASIER:* Are you aware that some plastic tips have a coating on it
to prevent liquids from adhering to them?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't know if they're specifically coated with
anything, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* But are you aware that plastic tips don't
have--don't--that blood or other fluids don't adhere to plastic tips as
they might to glass?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Do you know that?

*MR. MATHESON:* I would say it depends on the plastic, it depends on the
glass.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the--using the $300 pipetter, how much does that
plastic tip hold?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the pipetter that I demonstrated here is a 1,000
microliter or one ml capacity. When you draw it up, there's a little
space on top of it. So--but you don't want to--I mean, that's your
maximum, is one milliliter, but it could hold a little more.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the--the little plastic one with the bulb built into
the top, how much does that hold?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't know.

*MR. BLASIER:* Is that--is there a marking on there to indicate one
milliliter?

*MR. MATHESON:* I can take a look at the one we have and see if it says
something on it.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I don't see any markings on it at all.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the dispo--the glass one that doesn't have the bulb
on it, does that have any markings on it?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that a trained forensic scientist who
intended to draw one milliliter out of a blood vial would know the
difference between one milliliter and two and a half milliliters?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I would think so.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you indicated that when you take the tops off of
these purple top vials, a lot of times you get blood that comes out of
them, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I think I mentioned that there's some adhering to
the cap, and when you remove it, some of the times, that gets
transferred onto the chem-wipe.

*MR. BLASIER:* And are you aware of what's known as an aerosol effect?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Goes beyond the scope of redirect--recross.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. BLASIER:* What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it's when you, you know, apply some force or
something with the liquid, it forces it out in very small droplets.

*MR. BLASIER:* In almost like a spray if you had a spray bottle of
something?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yeah. That's an aerosol effect too. You're taking,
squirting a spray bottle and putting it into the air.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that blood would have DNA in it, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* The blood that is aerosolized?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you use the term in your redirect examination
"splattering," correct? Do you remember using that term?

*MR. MATHESON:* Blood spatter, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* No. I think it was splattering.

*THE COURT:* In what context, counsel?

*MR. BLASIER:* In terms of when you opened the tube, having blood come
off of the top.

*THE COURT:* I think he's already described that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, when we were at the lab in January, Mr. Taylor,
myself and several others, we asked you specific questions about the
withdrawals from this reference tube, didn't we?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe so, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you told us that when you did your withdrawal on the
27th, you put what you didn't use back, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I assume this is foundational for something else.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did, but I believe I probably qualified it with,
you know, to the best of my knowledge or something like that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you remember doing that? Do you remember putting any
qualifications on it at all?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, but I normally do if I don't have very specific
memory of something.

*MR. BLASIER:* Was your recollection better in January than it is today
as to whether you put the blood back?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes facts not in evidence, that he had a
recollection of it.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. BLASIER:* You wouldn't have told us that you put it back if that
wasn't your recollection, would you?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* It's argumentative the way it's phrased.

*MR. BLASIER:* When you talked to us, did you tell us to the best of
your knowledge what you had done with the blood that you used?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Asked and answered already.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, do you recall us having a discussion about how much
was used in toxicology and where that .70 figure came from?

*MR. MATHESON:* Are we talking about in court or--

*MR. BLASIER:* No. I'm sorry. In January.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the micro centrifuge tube, that's the tube that went
to toxicology, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it's the one that was prepared by them.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that holds a maximum of 1.5, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And by your measurements, when it got back and got put
back in the envelope, it had .8 left, didn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe so, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that would indicate, would it not, that .7 was no
longer there?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you remember a discussion at that same
meeting--incidentally, Mr. Yamauchi was present as well, wasn't he?

*MR. MATHESON:* He might have been. He was involved in a number of those.

*MR. BLASIER:* And do you recall a discussion at that time that involved
him about how much he actually withdrew on the 27th?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for hearsay.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm sorry. The 25th.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you recall during that meeting taking any issue with
anything that Mr. Yamauchi said about what he had done?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Still calls for hearsay, not relevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't have any specific recollection of that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, what does the term "examiner bias" mean?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Not relevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, my understanding of that would be is that
"examiner" being the person that's doing the work, I can have a certain
bias or slant or, you know, something along that line that exists within
him.

*MR. BLASIER:* Is it another way of stating that, that sometimes an
examiner might come to the conclusion that he thinks he's supposed to
come to, not necessarily fraudulently or--but just because you know the
result and you tend to see what you think is supposed to be there? Do
you understand what I just said?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not really, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* I don't think I did either. Doesn't that mean that your
preconceived idea of what the test results should be has been shown by
studies to possibly affect the result that you actually see?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope of this witness' expertise.

*THE COURT:* Sustained the way that's phrased.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, tell us what you mean by the term "examiner bias."

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if a person has a bias, then they have a
preconceived notion or a leaning towards one particular idea or something.

*MR. BLASIER:* And one of the techniques--and I think you testified
about this--in terms of how much information you know versus not having
any information, is to read test results in a blind sense where you
don't know anything else about the rest of the case, so you don't have
any preconceived idea what the answer is supposed to be, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you remember the cranberry juice we talked about,
Mr. Goldberg asked you about a little while ago?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And I represented to you when we did that little
experiment that there was--it started with eight milliliters, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, you did.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, when you look at a tube--we measured that in a
little graduated container, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you recognize that as the type of container that you
use if you want to measure quantities or one of the types, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* It's one of the types available, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And when you pour something in there and you hold it up
and you estimate how much is in there, you look at the liquid and you
compare it to the markings on the tube, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And when you looked at that, did you take your
measurement from--well, withdraw. When liquid is in a tube like that, a
relatively small tube, it tends to bow down in the middle, doesn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. BLASIER:* So if you take a measurement from the bottom of the bow,
it's going to be different from the top of the bow, isn't it?

*THE COURT:* Are you talking about the meniscus?

*MR. BLASIER:* Meniscus.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, if you take it from the top. You're supposed to
take it from the bottom of the meniscus.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, if I indicated to you hypothetically that when I
measured the eight, I took it from the top, that would have been an
incorrect way to measure it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, your Honor, that's improper.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* You would get a difference if you measure it from the top
versus the bottom?

*MR. MATHESON:* Of the meniscus, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Now, I want to ask you a couple questions about
security at the lab. Now, the computer printouts that you identified and
testified to on redirect only include lists of employees who may have
entered those rooms by presenting their id card, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And anybody who initially enters that unit that may have
somebody else with them when they go in, that second person is not going
to show up on any record anywhere, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* In fact, the times that we've been out there where you've
shown us that room, our names don't appear on any computer printout as a
result of going into that room, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Right, because you're not issued a card.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that particular--and--for instance, on the morning of
June 14th, if Detective Lange was in that room, he doesn't show up on
any printout either, does he?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, his name wouldn't show up. He doesn't have a
security card for our facility.

*MR. BLASIER:* Incidentally, the detectives that you work with in
robbery-homicide, for instance, they know where the evidence processing
room is, don't they?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't think all of them would. Ones that have been in
our facility would.

*MR. BLASIER:* And when you dry the blood swatches, they're always dried
in that cabinet up on the wall, aren't they?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's our designated drying spot, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the records that you testified to only show when a
door is opened, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually, it only shows when somebody displays their
card. It reads the card, then it unlocks it.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, does--is any record--is there any record in the
computer when somebody who is inside the room goes out?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there's not.

*MR. BLASIER:* So those records, there's no way you can tell from those
records how long people who went in at a particular time stayed there?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This has been asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the garage door that we've been referring to, the
roll-up door, does that require any kind of card entry from the outside?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes it can be opened from the outside.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That door does not require a card to open it up, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* So if that door were opened, there would be no record, no
computer record of who might have gone in that door or who might have
gone out of it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, to open that door, we would have a record of who
was in the evidence processing room because that's where you open it
from. Once it was opened, no, then we would not have a record of it.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, let's assume--I'm sorry. Were you done?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Let's assume that you have Mr. Fung come into the
evidence processing room with somebody with him. Now, that entry would
show up and it would show up as Mr. Fung, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And then the door is open and Mr. Fung leaves, but the
second person stays. There would be no record that the second person was
in there alone, would there?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the documents that you testified to are only
authorized entries into that room, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* If somebody was able to get into that room who was
unauthorized without triggering the computer system, there would be no
record of that, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not on that printout, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you also indicated on redirect that--you were asked
some questions about evidence possibly being moved from a crime scene.
Do you recall that, in terms of whether there's full documentation by
taking pictures?

*MR. MATHESON:* Oh, as to whether or not it had been moved from its
original location prior to collection?

*MR. BLASIER:* Correct.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you recall stating that as long as you had a picture
of it before it was moved and a picture of it after, then that would be
sufficient documentation for you?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, do you recall making a statement about the fact
that if you had a picture of it in its original position and a picture
of it later when it may have been moved, that that in your view was
sufficient documentation of that item?

*MR. MATHESON:* It's sufficient documentation of the fact that it had
moved, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Tells you nothing about what was done with it between the
first picture and the second picture, does it?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Tells nothing about whether someone picked it up, took it
someplace, held it and then put it back, does it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were asked some questions on redirect about the
blanket. And do you recall testifying that you wouldn't have collected
that, and one of the reasons being that it appeared to have just the
victim's blood on it? Remember saying that?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. It's incomplete.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you recall the reasons why--tell us the reasons that
you told us yesterday as to why you wouldn't have collected that blanket.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Still misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I believe I said I probably wouldn't. You know, it
depends. There is some variation in how we work when we're out in the
field, and I think--the reasons that come to mind is that it is an item
that was brought into the scene after the fact, it was not present when
the crime occurred and that, you know, if you're visually looking at it
and it is very heavily blood-stained, having being placed--having known
to be placed over the victim, the assumption is that the majority of the
blood on there is going to be from the victim and it is not--does not
have a lot of evidentiary value associated with it.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, let's assume hypothetically that there were drops of
blood on the victim's shoulder area from some source other than the
victim and a blanket was put over the top of that. Could that blood
transfer to the blanket?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assumes facts not in evidence. Improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* It's a hypothetical question. Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* If that blood is damp, yes, it could transfer to the
blanket.

*MR. BLASIER:* So under that hypothetical, that blanket, if that indeed
happened, could have contained the blood of someone other than the victim?

*MR. MATHESON:* Given the hypothetical, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were asked some questions on redirect about
getting to the crime scene before the Coroner. Do you recall those?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe there was some--yes. About when the Coroner
should be called and the bodies removed.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you also were asked some questions about whether
it's preferable to process a crime scene during daylight hours or during
nighttime hours, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you have any information indicating that the reason
the detectives did not call CID or SID for seven hours had anything to
do with processing the crime scene in daylight hours versus nighttime hours?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative. Calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Calls for speculation.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, I think you indicated that at some point, detectives
may decide to process a crime scene themselves?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, that does occur.

*MR. BLASIER:* Including making swatches?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony as to making swatches.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* Including logging evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you have any information indicating that the
detectives that were at the Bundy scene between approximately 12:00 and
when SID arrived later that morning processed any evidence that they
recorded?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* 12:00?

*THE COURT:* The jurors know what time--the time sequence. Any evidence
of that to your knowledge?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not that I can recall at this moment.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were also asked on redirect examination if you
had seen any evidence or indication of evidence being tampered in this
case. Remember being asked that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, would you agree that by your testimony, you don't
know how many swatches were collected, so you can not tell us if the
number of swatches that are in the evidence now is the same number as
the number of swatches collected originally?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Asked and answered, argumentative, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you learned at some point that Andrea Mazzola's
initials were not on many of the bindles that relate to the blood drops
that were collected?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for hearsay, vague as to "many," beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* You became aware of that; did you not?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe so, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* In fact, you became aware that her initials didn't appear
on any of the bindles, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Were you aware of that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That they didn't appear on any of them?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* Not as I'm remembering right now.

*MR. BLASIER:* And would you agree that--well, you were also aware of
Andrea Mazzola's testified--or testimony at the so-called split hearing
in August I believe?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Not relevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* You indicated you were asked some questions about
contamination and an article by Bruce Budowle of the FBI. Do you recall
those questions?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And do you recall making a statement yesterday in
redirect to the effect that contamination becomes a problem if it's
occurring and you don't know it's happening?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yeah. In use of the word "problem," because
contamination does occur, if it's going on, you don't know about it,
that is a problem.

*MR. BLASIER:* And if it's going on and you don't know about it, you
have no way of knowing how it might affect test results, do you?

*MR. MATHESON:* If I don't know about it, that's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* So if it--if there was evidence in your laboratory of
persistent contamination that you were unaware of, would you agree that
would be a serious problem?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Improper hypothetical, argumentative. It's also
logically impossible.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that would be a serious problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* If there was something going on that we had no idea it
was going on?

*MR. BLASIER:* Contamination.

*MR. MATHESON:* Given that assumption, that something like that could
happen, that would be a problem.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were asked some questions about the computer
system and the fact that it's password protected. Do you remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And a password is a secret word that you're given if
you're allowed to have access to a computer so that you can actually get
at the work foray, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And what that means is, if you don't have that word, you
can sit there and punch buttons all day, and you're not going to be able
to get into the computer, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, that particular protection that you described wasn't
in effect for any of the evidence in this case until the 16th of June,
correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Vague. Overbroad.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I think we're already established the date that
these things were entered into the computer, correct?

*MR. BLASIER:* Correct.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, could we take down that exhibit and--

*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, do you recall yesterday, you were asked
about biological contamination in the context of whether having one
sample contaminated with biological fluid from another sample could
cause the first sample to change type? Remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. I think we've talked about it a couple times.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you said that that can't happen?

*MR. MATHESON:* In actually changing the type?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's my understanding, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, when you're talking about actually changing the
type, let me shift that just a little bit and ask you the same question
about being able to detect--well, let me rephrase that. The only way we
have of knowing what a type is is by the test, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, is it your testimony that if you have a biological
sample from one person and another biological sample is added to that
from a second person, that the results of the test would never change?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not say that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, could we have slide--can we have--I need a number
for the slide presentation.

*THE COURT:* Defense next in order?

*THE CLERK:* 1143.

*MR. BLASIER:* 1143?

*THE COURT:* 1143-A.

/(Deft's 1143 for id = slide)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, remember yesterday we were talking
about that you get--genetic markers come from our parents, don't they?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And we talked in the context of the EAP system, of there
being A's, B's and C's and you get one of those from each parent, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Same thing is true with other genetic markers that are
looked at in DNA testing and other conventional serology testing, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. The concept's the same.

*MR. BLASIER:* Each marker system has its own universe if you will of
possible alleles they're called within that marker, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* Correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And one of the marker systems that you--in fact you look
at in your lab is called the DQ-alpha marker which is--that just
identifies a particular part of the DNA that's looked at, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, that's true.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that's a primary test that your lab performs, isn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's one of a couple tests, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And two of the alleles that happen to be in that system
are called 1.1 and 1.2, aren't they?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* It's kind of the equivalent of the A's and B's and C's,
correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is beyond the scope, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. But move it along, Mr. Blasier. This is just to
make a point.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes. Correct.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's get there.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's a designation, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, if you inherit that 1.1 from your mother and 1.1
from your father, then you're going to be a 1.1, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And correspondingly, if person B up there inherits a 1.2
from mom, a 1.2 from dad, that person is going to be a 1.2, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, if you take a little bit of blood from a and a
little bit of blood from B and mix it together and run a test on it,
you're going to get a type 1.1, 1.2, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Vague as to "little bit."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Depending on the concentrations of each, yes, you're
going to see those two.

*MR. BLASIER:* So assume they're approximately the same.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's what the test would read then, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the 1.1, 1.2 type is different from either of the two
types that went into it, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* When taken together, that's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, would you agree that that is an example of where you
could have a mixture of blood from two people that would type
differently from either one that's in it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It would change the result you see, yes. Not the type of
either one of them.

*MR. BLASIER:* But all we have is the results, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you also indicated yesterday that the nature of the
genetic markers that you deal with, one marker might--I think the term
you used was--overpower or one might degrade, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope. That wasn't on redirect.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes, it was.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm sorry. Could you repeat that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yeah. Let me--let me read your question and answer from
yesterday and see if this refreshes your memory or let me show it to you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It's irrelevant whether he can remember his testimony
from yesterday.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you recall that yesterday?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the concept you were talking about there was, if you
have this mixture that we've been talking about, if you've got part of
the mixture as either degraded or that you only got a little bit, it may
be overpowered by the other component, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Asked and answered, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, in my example, my hypothetical up there, would you
agree that if person number a had been--that sample had been degraded or
it was only a small sample and person number B had a lot there and you
mix them together and did a test, person number B might overwhelm person
number a, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, that's possible.

*MR. BLASIER:* And--

*MR. BLASIER:* Have that slide, please, slide b.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that that--in my hypothetical, that would
result in your final test of this mixture showing person b, but not
person a?

*MR. MATHESON:* Assuming that the quantity of B was sufficiently high,
yes, that could occur.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, let's assume hypothetically that the blood from
person a is put on a swatch and is put in a--while still damp in a
plastic bag, is put in a truck in the middle of June for a period of
time. Would you agree that that could cause that to start degrading?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I think, like I mentioned before, as soon as blood
leaves the body, degradation begins.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. And the degradation simply means the little pieces
of DNA are kind of breaking up and you lose the ability to detect them,
correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* And if hypothetically, blood from person B gets put on
that swatch later on after a has started to break down, then you might
get the hypothetical that's up on the projector?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* It's an improper hypothetical. Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, I want to ask you a couple questions
about the EAP testimony that you gave on redirect. Do you recall Mr.
Goldberg asked you specific questions about the articles that I had
referred you to? Do you remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, let me ask you first of all, the only article that
you referred to on direct was the Zajac, Grunbaum and Crim article, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's irrelevant, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That was the only one presented to me, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, let me show you that article. When's the last--have
you read that recently?

*MR. MATHESON:* I've read this and--yes. It's been within the last
several days.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you've given testimony on redirect about the manner
of degradation of an EAP; have you not?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm sorry. Of a BA.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that that particular article that you
referred to, nowhere in it talks about how a BA degrades in terms of
what happens to the bands, does it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Did you ask whether or not it makes any reference to any
form of specific type of degradation?

*MR. BLASIER:* No. My question is, it doesn't tell you which bands you
lose in what order when you degrade a BA, does it?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it does not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Can we have slide c.

*THE COURT:* C.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you recall yesterday we had a slide similar to this
to illustrate the path of degradation of a BA down to a b, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* It had similarities to this, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, one article that you were shown by or asked about by
Mr. Goldberg on redirect was the Yeshion article. Remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you testified that article said nothing about the
manner in which a BA degrades in terms of which bands disappear first.
Remember that?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you recall testifying that that article did not
describe the path of degradation of a BA?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No. Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* My understanding of the article is that I believe it
describes a different--the focus of the article is a different
degradation, the B to a CB or something like that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Let me show you that article and ask you to read
the first paragraph under "discussion."

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. Under discussion, it says, "several studies--"

*THE COURT:* Just read it to yourself.

*MR. MATHESON:* Oh, I'm sorry.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. MATHESON:* Okay.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, that article does describe the path of degradation
in terms of which bands disappear first, doesn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It does have a two-line reference to it, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And it--and it--it refers to that as being an analysis of
other literature on the topic, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* It references several studies, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And it says that all of those studies describe the path
of degradation the way I did on my cross-examination with you, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. BLASIER:* Not the way you described it, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, Mr. Matheson did describe it in one way.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Not the way you described it as a result--as leading to
two B bands, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were asked a question about the book that you
had referred to, the Saferstein book. Do you recall that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the chapter of that book that you were referring to
is actually written by Dr. Sensabaugh, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I believe we mentioned that.

*MR. BLASIER:* And he--I'm sorry. And he's the same author that--of the
article that I provided to you during cross-examination, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that article, the portion that you read from that
article describes one other possible path of degradation for a BA, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* I think gave indication of that, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And could you read again the--starting at the "thus"
which you started--which you read yesterday and read down to where it
says "two."

*MR. MATHESON:* Where it says what?

*MR. BLASIER:* Where--the next sentence where it starts with "two."

*MR. MATHESON:* Oh, okay. Am I reading this one out loud?

*MR. BLASIER:* Sure.

*MR. MATHESON:* "Thus one might expect the a bands in BA and CA types to
be lost before the B or C bands are lost. And this in fact has been
observed." that's the end of the sentence.

*MR. BLASIER:* Read the next sentence.

*MR. MATHESON:* "In typing aged type BA bloodstains, for example, only
the major B band," and then in parenthesis, "The anodal B band may be
apparent and the temptation would be to type the sample as a B type."

*MR. BLASIER:* And would you agree that what that says is that you might
also get a path of degradation that leads you to just seeing the b-2
band and nothing else?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And then the next part of that says what?

*MR. MATHESON:* "Since it has been observed that in aged BA bloodstains,
the slow B band is generally lost before the fast a band, the
controlling rule is to withhold judgment on a punitive B type until both
B bands are apparent. If the sample is in fact a BA type, the major a
band should be apparent by that time."

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that what that says is that if you have
both B bands, b-2 and b-2, that that cannot be a degraded BA?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. I believe it says things like "generally" and
"should." it's not an absolute.

*MR. BLASIER:* Can you cite me to a single scientific reference that
says that a BA can degrade to the point where you have two B bands and
nothing else?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I can not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Could we go to slide d, please?

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, the EAP test measures an enzyme in the blood, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. BLASIER:* And it's an enzyme that's found in red blood cells, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And our blood is made up of red blood cells and other
types of cells, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And there is no DNA in a red blood cell, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* The DNA or DNA is found in cells other than red blood
cells, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* So if you're doing a DNA test on a biological fluid that
contains a lot of cells, you're only looking at what's in cells other
than red blood cells, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* For the DNA, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Can we go to slide e?

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, you--would you agree that our hands
and fingernails are made up of cells?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they are.

*MR. BLASIER:* And would you agree that if you took scrapings from under
a person's fingernails, you would expect their DNA to be in it, wouldn't
you?

*MR. MATHESON:* Their own DNA?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* If you scraped and picked up some of their skin or blood
or whatever happened to be under there.

*MR. BLASIER:* And if you did that kind of a scraping where you got
cellular material from under the fingernails, if you didn't find the
person's DNA, that would be unusual, wouldn't it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I haven't done DNA typing under fingernails. So I
don't know if it would be unusual or not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you could also, could you not--let's assume
hypothetically that you have a person with fingernails that scratches
somebody else who has an EAP type B. Have that hypothetical in mind?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And a small amount of that--a person's B who has an EAP
type B gets under the fingernails of person A. You with me so far?

*MR. MATHESON:* Think so.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you took scrapings from under the fingernails and did
a series of tests on them, would you agree that when you do the EAP
test, you're going to detect the EAP type B from the person who was
scratched, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* If there's sufficient blood present. It--excuse me. The
detectability limit of the test.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, would you also agree that if you had a greater
amount of material, cellular material from person a and you did a DNA
test, that you would detect the DNA of person a in that mixture,
wouldn't you?

*MR. MATHESON:* If there's sufficient amount, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And if the amount of DNA from person a overwhelmed the
amount of DNA that might have come from the small amount of blood from
person b, you'd never see person b, would you?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Beyond the scope. It's getting into DNA.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Do you understand the question?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. If the quantity of DNA provided by the tissue that
was scraped was significantly higher than the or sufficiently higher
than the blood providing the EAP, then yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And would you agree that you can do as many DNA tests as
you want on that mixture and you're never going to be able to prove that
person B isn't there?

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I would ask that the jury be admonished to disregard the
import of that question.

*THE COURT:* They know that when I sustain an objection, that's the rule.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, you talked about your control study
that you used item 42 for, correct? Remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I'm saying we did type item no. 42, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And I think you indicated that according to the article
by Dr. Budowle, that for that kind of control study to have any value at
all, the sample that you're comparing it to has to have been subjected
to the same myriad of environmental insults I think is the way you
described it, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe on reading that, it made reference to the fact
that a blood sample collected from an area where the victim is that's
known to be the victim's blood would tend to be involved in the same
environmental conditions.

*MR. BLASIER:* But if your control sample, in this case, 42 that you
testified to about was subjected to different environmental conditions,
then the fingernail samples--your control makes no sense. It doesn't
work that way, does it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It's argumentative. It states facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. BLASIER:* In my example, the control is not a proper control, is
it, if it's not--if that sample is subjected to different conditions
than the one you're comparing it to?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Vague as to "proper control."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it still is going to provide information. It is
blood that you know to come from a particular person. If the
environmental conditions are not exactly the same, then that is
something that might be considered.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you were asked some questions on redirect about wet
stains versus dry stains. Remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* I think there was some mention of it regarding the
studies, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Incidentally, is there a single reference in the
literature or a single study that you can point to that says that the
degradation pattern of a wet stain is going to be different than a dry
stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not that I can recall at the moment.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, would you also agree that 84, the fingernails in
this case, there were two samples, one from one hand, one from the
other, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* And one of those samples appear to be damp because you
can see the transfer of material onto the container it was put in, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* The other one was dry, wasn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the other one appeared to be drier. It had chunks
of blood down the bottom, but the tip of the stick was a little damp.
So--or a little red, which may indicate that it had a little bit of
dampness in it. But there was a difference.

*MR. BLASIER:* There was a difference in the condition of those two
samples, wasn't there?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, vague and overbroad as to the conditions. Calls
for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Would you agree that if your theory--if your testimony
about a control study is accurate, it would only apply to samples that
had the same condition, similar condition?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Vague as to similar.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I think that has to be taken into consideration, but
there's still information that can be obtained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Uh-huh. Now, I would like to show on the elmo the--I'm
not sure what exhibit this is. This is the one that the Prosecution did
where they printed out with the arrows on it. Do you remember yesterday
you were asked to identify the--I think you described them as band-like
appearances?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* From 42? Let me show you this.

*THE COURT:* Well, let's find out what exhibit it is first.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I may have written the number on the back. I sometimes
do. That may be 224-C.

*MR. BLASIER:* 224-C.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* Let me show you 224-C on the elmo.

*THE COURT:* Why don't we give Mr. Matheson the other copy of that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* And keeping in mind the time limitations.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes. We're almost done.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, Mr. Matheson, you recall that you had two arrows put
where you--where you saw what you described as something kind of like a
band. Remember that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, you also testified during cross that there is
something kind of like a band or something that you can see between
those two arrows, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That misstates the testimony. It's also inconjunctive.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* There is kind of a haze in that area that's brighter
than the background, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And could you direct the--get an arrow put on that where
you see that?

*MR. MATHESON:* You need to go to the left, left.

*MR. BLASIER:* Could we have the arrow on the same side, please?

*THE COURT:* How about if we have it on opposite sides of the same lane
so that we can determine who put what where?

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*MR. MATHESON:* I guess you need to go down a little bit, down. Right
kind of in that area off to the left there, there's kind of a hazy cloud
of something /(Indicating)/.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Why don't you clip that.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, that is in an area that would correspond to an a
band, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* General area, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Now, I want to cover up everything except that lane.

*MR. BLASIER:* Can we print this up first?

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, I'm going to cover up everything except
that lane. See that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And the technique I'm using is what you described earlier
as reading it blind, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. Actually reading blind that I mentioned before is
not having any information about the case. It's very difficult and
really fairly inappropriate to read a plate without the controls and
things present.

*MR. BLASIER:* There's nothing on there that you as a forensic scientist
will call a band, is there?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is improper, your Honor. This is not a
scientifically correct way of doing it, and also the resolution is not
good enough.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Foundation.

*MR. BLASIER:* Is there anything in that lane that appears that you
would call--as a forensic scientist under your training that you would
call a band?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Same foundational problems.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And the resolution is not good enough.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't believe I've ever testified that I identified
bands in that lane, but that there were things or band-like visible
areas that were showing up.

*MR. BLASIER:* Including in the area of an a band, correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* In addition to other areas of that lane, yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* And would you agree that your bank-like appearances are
three areas of some sort of a cloudy thing that you've described, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* There's no foundation for this, your Honor. It's also
vague as to "cloudy thing." it's been asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm sorry. Can you repeat the question?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes. You testified now that you see three band-like things--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. That does.

*MR. BLASIER:* That you see three areas on there that have a cloudy-like
substance, correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* What do you see, Mr. Matheson?

*MR. MATHESON:* I see areas on there of different intensities of a
cloud-like type of appearance.

*MR. BLASIER:* And that doesn't look anything at all like what you found
under the fingernails, does it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, that's an improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* No. That's argumentative the way it's phrased.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's also a picture of a picture.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* That doesn't look like what you found under the
fingernails, does it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* Does that look like the bands--does that have the similar
appearance to the bands that you found under the fingernails?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Argumentative, your Honor, improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it doesn't. If it looked the same, I would have
called this with the same result, and I didn't.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's move on.

*MR. BLASIER:* Could we have slide--let me--

*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, California Association of Criminalists has
a Code of Ethics; do they not?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. BLASIER:* I ask you to look at that and read the highlighted
paragraph to yourself.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, this is irrelevant, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay.

*MR. BLASIER:* And do you agree that those highlighted paragraphs are
two paragraphs from the code of ethics from the California association
of criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you are a member of that organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you consider yourself to be bound by those ethics?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I'm wondering if we should print out a copy
of that last demo I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, I object to that because there was no
foundation for a scientist looking at something that's covered up like that.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. BLASIER:* Could we have slide f, please?

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed with a little alacrity.

*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, would you agree that the code of ethics of
your organization that you are a member of provide that: "The
criminalist will be alert to recognize the significance of a test result
as it may relate to the investigative aspects of a case. In this--" I'm
sorry. I got it backwards. Let me read the other one. Would you agree
that one of those provisions provides that: "Where test results are
capable of being interpreted to the advantage of either side of a case,
the criminalist will not choose that interpretation favoring the side
which he is employed merely as a means of justifying his employment"? Do
you agree that that's one of the provisions of your code of ethics?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* Could we see the next slide, please?

*MR. BLASIER:* Do you also agree that one of the provisions of your code
of ethics is that: "The criminalist will be alert to recognize the
significance of a test result as it may relate to the investigative
aspects of a case. In this respect, however--in this respect, he will,
however, scrupulously avoid confusing scientific fact with investigative
theory in his interpretations"? Do you agree that that's one of the
provisions of your code of ethics?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. BLASIER:* And do you agree that there is no scientific support for
your testimony that a BA can degrade to the point where you have two B
bands remaining?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. BLASIER:* Isn't that what you're doing in this case, Mr. Matheson,
is violating this code of ethics?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, this is totally argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* I have no further questions.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*_FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. GOLDBERG_*

*__MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, you are, as a criminalist, bound by a
code of ethics; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* I am bound of one of the organizations that I belong to
and personally, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does that code of ethics also have provision dealing
with presenting inconclusive results in court?

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as they would not be B?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No. The circumstances under which you are allowed to
present those results. I thought we looked at that yesterday, didn't we?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'd have to review and find out what the provision is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you take a look and see if--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* May I approach?

*THE COURT:* Please. See if we can speed this up just a little.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Looking at paragraph 2-E, sir, can you read that
for us out loud?

*MR. MATHESON:* It reads: "Where test results are inconclusive or
indefinite, any conclusion drawn shall be fully explained."

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when we were talking about the inconclusive results
in this case in terms of the EAP issue, did you explain at exhaustive
length how you were considering and why you were considering those results?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I believe so.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you feel that it was necessary to do so?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why, even at the risk of perhaps boring and presenting
maybe marginally relevant explanations at the length to which you went
to explain them?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, they needed greater explanation than the
conclusive results because they are inconclusive. A conclusive result is
a final statement. Inconclusion requires that some sort of explanation
be made.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And at all times throughout your involvement in this
case, have you scrupulously followed the ethical standards and
guidelines that you are bound to follow as a criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* I always follow them to the best of my ability.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, do you consider your participation in the
California association of criminalists to be important?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you consider your job as a criminalist to be
simply a 9:00 to 5:00 type job so to speak or does it mean more than
that to you?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It means a lot more. It's a profession. That's why
I'm involved in the associations and the profession as a whole.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And this code of ethics comes from the California
association of criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you're one of the former past presidents of that
organization; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And, sir, can you tell us what the little lapel pin on
your lapel represents?

*MR. MATHESON:* That--it's a pin of the California association of
criminalists.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And have you ever at any time ever tried to
interpret or misinterpret a result in this case or any of your testimony
in this case to favor the Defense?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you ever tried to present any testimony in this
case in such a way as to favor one side or the other?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I have not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And since you have been testifying, has any member of
the California association of criminalists called you and criticized
anything that you've said?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Irrelevant.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, I'd like to ask you a few other
questions quickly about the EAP issue. I know we've gone into it in
exhaustive length, but we'll make it very rapid. As to the Yeshion
article that you were asked about, was that an article that studied in
the sense of doing experiments on the issue of EAP degradation from BA to B?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it is not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. What type of EAP degradation issues was Yeshion
dealing with?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was a technical note about a B to a CB.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And so there are some other degradation problems
that deal with EAP that we haven't really discussed at length in this
case; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Leading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled, but we've covered this once already.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And, Mr. Matheson, scientifically speaking, does this
article, the Yeshion article provide any new scientific information in
terms of a study on the BA to B phenomenon?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it does not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the Grunbaum study that we talked
about, was there a sample in that study that was in fact mistyped as a B
question mark that was a BA?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did Mr. Grinbaum state that in those cases, distinct
band patterns were present in the cases of the mistypes that occurred in
his study?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe so, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what does that mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I think the use of the term "patterns" rather than
"pattern" indicates more than one band.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you have stated that in your professional career,
the BA to B phenomenon is something that you have personally seen where
there are both B bands present?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that includes a number of instances in this case; is
that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Related to this case or other cases?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, there are a couple instances in this case, more
than one where you believe it happened here?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, you were asked about preconceived notions and the
effect that that has on a scientist's judgment. When you were typing 42,
the pool of blood of Nicole Simpson, had you previously been informed
prior to when you did your work by Mr. Fung that that was collected as a
sample of Nicole Brown's blood?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Coming in for his state of mind on preconceptions.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* It was my understanding that that's what that sample was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that's what you believed when you were actually
doing the testing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when you were actually doing the testing, did you
believe that the results should be a BA?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Argumentative, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* It's leading.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you believe the results should be prior to
doing your test?

*MR. MATHESON:* I was expecting to see a BA.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that what you saw?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you see?

*MR. MATHESON:* I saw an inconclusive result with some kind of fuzzy
areas that lined up with the two B bands.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So you called it as a B inconclusive?

*MR. MATHESON:* B question mark, and the conclusion was that it was
inconclusive.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And, sir, did your preconceptions in any way affect that
result or that--that notation in your reports?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In the literature, have you seen a single reference that
says that the only degradation route is the one that was discussed in
the article by Wraxall under all conditions?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not that I recall, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And has anything that was brought up to you on
cross-examination with respect to the EAP issue--excuse me--on
re-recross caused you to reevaluate or reform any of the opinions that
you've presented here in court on the EAP issue?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it has not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, on the card key system--you were asked about the
computer system and dealing with evidence tracking and the card key
system dealing with the doors. Are those two separate systems?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm sorry. Would you repeat the question?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* There--you have a computer system dealing with door
entries; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you have a system that also tracks evidence called
the set system; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, are those the same computer program or are they
different computer programs or what?

*MR. MATHESON:* They're totally unrelated, actually sit on totally
different computers.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was the card key system with respect to the
laboratory in fact in operation from let's say June the 12th all the way
forward to today?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you know how much--do you have any personal knowledge
of how much was in the blood vial at the time that it initially came to
the laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the evidence processing room, is
there any practice in place at SID to take detectives on tours of the
laboratory and point out to them where everything is and where the
drying cabinet is and the like?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* We do occasionally give tours to detectives.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that done though for every single one systematically?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it isn't. If they express an interest, we'll be
happy to show them around.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you take tours, do--would you make it a
point--well, have you ever done a tour yourself?

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as giving one?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you make it a point when you're giving a tour to
point out the drying cabinet, "This is where we dry our biological
evidence?"

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, that's not one of the highlights of the tour.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Actually, the lab is set up for tours, isn't it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is. The windows into the lab and we actually
have an audio system where you can push a button and listen to us talk
about that unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And with these windows, is that so that people can look
inside the lab and see what's going on and then they press a little
button that gives them a description of it?

*MR. MATHESON:* If they want to, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are these guided tours that you occasionally give to
school children and the like?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So they just go through the corridor area and they can
press these buttons?

*MR. MATHESON:* They can, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. So if--when someone's working in the
laboratory on evidence, say, the serology laboratory, there's a window
that's set up so that people can see in and watch what they're doing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yeah. Most parts of the lab. You can't see into all
corners of it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, have you ever seen--do you know whether
Detective Vannatter, Detective Lange or Detective Fuhrman have ever had
any tour of the SID facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* I have no personal knowledge of that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have you ever see either of those detectives trained
in how to collect a swatch?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't remember if any of them have received direct
training on that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you ever seen them collect a swatch?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not that I can recall.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. I think that may be just about it. Let me check.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can I just have one moment, your Honor? I think that
that's just about it. Thank you very much, Mr. Matheson, and ladies and
gentlemen.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* One question.

*_FURTHER RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. BLASIER_*

*__MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Matheson, in the Grunbaum article that you
testified to where there's reference to one example of a BA degrading
and being mistyped as a b, do you have any idea how many bands that
degraded BA had?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for speculation, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Not exactly, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* You can't tell whether there were two bands at the end or
one band, can you?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not unless the term "patterns" makes reference to that,
but not specifically, no.

*MR. BLASIER:* Have you ever called Dr. Grunbaum or Mr. Zajac and ask them?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Calls for speculation, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* That's three. That's three.

*MR. BLASIER:* No further questions.

*THE COURT:* Thank you. Nothing more on that?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Matheson, thank you very much, sir. You are
excused as a witness subject to being recalled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* All right. And don't discuss your testimony with anybody
else with regards to this case. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we're
going to take our recess for the morning session. Please remember all my
admonitions to yourselves; don't discuss the case amongst yourselves,
don't form--you know what the admonition is. Don't discuss the case
amongst yourselves, don't form any opinions about the case, don't allow
anybody to communicate with you with regard to the case, don't conduct
any deliberations until the matter has been submitted to you. All right.
We'll stand in recess as far as the jury is concerned. All right. And
I'll see counsel in about five minutes.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record. Parity and sanctions. I'll
hear from Mr. Scheck first. Good afternoon, counsel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Good afternoon, your Honor. Your Honor, the most precious
commodity an advocate has is credibility. Before I walked into this
courtroom, you and I didn't know each other, although we passed through
the same halls of a law school in northern California, but neither of us
even remembered meeting each other. When I walked into this courtroom
many months ago, a lot of things were said about--from the Prosecution's
side to, quote, inoculate you as to how I would conduct myself as a
professional and how Mr. Neufeld would conduct himself as a
professional. And during the course of these many months, as any
advocate, I have to build up credibility with you. I have to be accurate
in what I say. I have to comport myself in a manner that is in
accordance with the rules of the Court. I have to make representations
to you factually again and again that are accurate for you to have any
trust in me, a person you've never seen, have no experience before,
never worked with before. The same is true--and I know the Court
realizes this as a trial lawyer--with the jury. When one gets up and
conducts a cross-examination, the facts ought to be there. One has to be
very careful in the representations one makes and the points one makes.
Advocacy should be vigorous, but it has to be fair. I think the term
applies to Prosecutors in United States versus Berger, words I'm sure
the Court's familiar with. You have to strike--you can strike hard
blows, but they've got to be fair ones. And I think the same applies to
advocates on both sides of the aisle. So it's of great concern to any
advocate to finish cross-examination that's been carefully planned, when
details have been gone over with with the Court, when one is relying on
Court orders, one is relying upon compliance with those Court orders by
the Scientific Investigation Division laboratory by the Prosecutors,
bases in all fairness certain lines of questions on those
representations in compliance with this Court's order. I think I'm
entitled to rely on them doing their job diligently and making fair and
honest representations. It's not too much to ask. I was set up. There
were--the record is now clear that, first, when the discovery
application was made for the production of original documents, mistakes
were made by personnel in SID in turning over--according to them. I
mean, let's just assume page 4 was the original. According to them, they
made a mistake and did not turn over the original. I don't think there's
any question now in terms of the record that they were very concerned
about why we would be looking at these documents and what our concerns
would be. And I think it's fair to say that they also knew we were very
concerned about Mr. Simpson's blood vial.

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Scheck, let's sort of cut to the chase.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*THE COURT:* We know that the Court made the production order.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* We know that during the course of the testimony of Mr.
Fung, that that page 4 appeared, that that appearance was known to the
Prosecution prior to the conclusion of your cross-examination of Mr.
Fung and that a decision was made--it was discussed and a decision was
made not to reveal that prior to the redirect examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Missing one step. If I could bring the Court's--

*THE COURT:* What one step am I missing?

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Between the time that I finished
cross-examination and during the production of documents, the record is
clear that Mr. Hodgman notified Mr. Neufeld and myself that in the
documents that they had turned over to us, one of the documents was not
an original. That was the page that's been designated l-16/32. And I
outline this with citations to the transcript in my letter. That came up
in the cross-examination and in fact in the direct examination. It then
became clear that before we proceeded down that last fatal line of
cross-examination, that the Prosecution, through Mr. Fung and Mr.
Matheson, went into Mr. Fung's notebook and came out with the original
l-16/32. And the reason that's significant, your Honor, is, it put them
on notice that their original productions might have been inadequate.
And also--and I find this very troubling. I'm sure the Court noticed
it--Mr. Goldberg in all his arguments, that I made some kind of tactical
choice not to come forward and point out a mistake to them, misstated
the facts to the Court on the record saying that we were the ones that
brought to the Prosecution's attention that we had not received an
original. Therefore, we should have done it again with page 4 when
exactly the opposite occurred. They brought Mr. Hodgman down to this
courtroom when this issue was in dispute and Mr. Hodgman said that we
were correct. They then filed this parity motion with the Court and
repeat the same inaccurate representation as to the chain of
events--it's astonishing--and make the same argument--

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Scheck, I'm just--

*MR. SCHECK:* No. The reason I focus on that--

*THE COURT:* No. I'm just trying to cut to the chase.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no.

*THE COURT:* Counsel, I sat through all of this.

*MR. SCHECK:* I understand. And I know you know the record. The only
reason I'm pointing this out and emphasizing it is that one of the
problems I had with the proposed charge of the Court is that it's my
position that they had further notice and this is not--Court referred to
it as inadvertence and I think mistake in the first instance is a fair
statement. Sid make a mistake in turning over the documents, if you want
to be charitable. They simply failed to turn over the right documents
according to them. Then they're put on notice that where the mistake
might have come from and they didn't do anything about it. So I think
there's another degree of certainly negligence or in terms of not being
properly diligent in searching their files. And that's a factor to be
considered in terms of what transpired subsequently to that. Now, I
think the Court was going to--that's the only reason I stopped the
Court. Now I think you want to cut to the chase and ask me another
question about what, prejudice?

*THE COURT:* No. I understand your argument about the need for trial
counsel to maintain their credibility before the trier of fact. I
understand that. I accept that argument as being a valid argument. The
next question is, you have submitted to the Court a proposed admonition
to the jury. I indicated to you that I would probably give 85 percent of
that, but I was uncertain about the last sentence to be taken into
consideration as to credibility of that particular witness.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I think now that what's clear is that subsequent to
the active intentional misconduct, the Prosecution then tried to exploit
that on the redirect examination by asking Mr. Fung questions that
indicated that they had fully complied with their discovery obligations,
that they didn't throw away documents or tear them up, et cetera.

*THE COURT:* But, Mr. Scheck, I sat through all of that.

*MR. SCHECK:* I know. And you also indicated when I objected to it and
asked for the admonition at that point again that it was overreaching
and it was improper vouching and they were trying to exploit the
mistake. My problem is, your Honor, this happened so long ago and then
they then tried to exploit it and then continued with the
misrepresentations. My problem is this. Unless you're willing to say
something strong, it's not worth doing at all.

*THE COURT:* Miss Lewis.

*MS. LEWIS:* Thank you, your Honor. Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Good afternoon.

*MS. LEWIS:* Good afternoon it is. Your Honor, let's look at some of the
pertinent facts that haven't been highlighted. Initially, Mr. Scheck
apparently was at SID and examined the originals--and I'm told there is
some 80 to 100 documents that we're talking about--examined those
documents, felt at that time we now know that there was a problem with
the original not being present on page 4. Now, in that time, did he do
what the Defense has done consistently throughout this case not only
with the DNA labeled materials, but with any other type of material? Did
he send us a letter? Did he call Mr. Hodgman? Did he do anything like
that and say--did he even ask Mr. Goldberg there when Mr. Goldberg was
present, "Do you know where the original page 4 is? It looks like it's
missing"? No, he didn't do that. And that was back in March. What he
chose to do was to ask for all of these documents so that they could
have a questioned documents examiner analyze them. We had no idea why
they would want to do something like that. So we said, "We think you
ought to go to the Court with that request," even though we have been
complying with many, many requests of theirs that really go beyond the
bounds of discovery. So they did. They went to the Court and what Mr.
Scheck revealed to us during the last argument is that he made an in
camera, ex parte appropriately offer of proof to the Court apparently
about this original of page 4. So apparently that is one reason why the
Court ordered the production of those originals from us to the Defense
for their inspection. All of this was unbeknownst to the Prosecution.
All we knew is that we were ordered to produce the originals, which
comprised some 80 to a hundred documents. We complied with the Court's
order to the best of our knowledge. The Court already I believe made a
finding that it was inadvertent that we had not turned over the original
at that point in time. But what the Defense apparently decided to do
after their questioned documents examiner apparently verified that
wasn't an original page 4--and by the way, let's recall, this is a blank
piece of paper we're talking about, a blank form which has just the
typewriting, but nothing filled in. Once their questioned
examiner--questioned document examiner apparently verified that wasn't
an original, they, instead of, again, once again, asking us, as they
have many times throughout this case on all sorts of discovery
throughout this case, instead of asking us, "Do you know where the
original is of page 4," according to Mr. Scheck--and apparently, he just
corroborated what it seems like now, they planned--he planned his entire
cross-examination with culminating on this big finish of accusing Mr.
Fung of being involved in a conspiracy by trying to cover up the timing
with regard to the transfer of blood from Mr. Vannatter--Detective
Vannatter to Mr. Fung. So what counsel did was to make a deliberate,
tactical choice and maneuver to try and utilize this, to exploit this
nothing as it turned out to the benefit of the Defense in making it
appear like there was something there, like there was some part of a
conspiracy there. None of this was known to the Prosecution of course.
Now, we reached a point in time during the almost tail end of Mr.
Scheck's--Mr. Scheck's cross-examination of Dennis Fung, and that's when
he elected to come up with the accusations with regard to the missing
original page 4, and it became clear to the D.A.'s at that time that he
knew he didn't have the page 4, original page 4, and that's the first
time that any of us knew that there wasn't an original page 4 examined
by the Defense. Now, one thing the Court has stated which causes me
concern--and I believe the record is clear, but I want the Court to be
clear in the Court's mind--is that when Mr. Scheck had indeed finished
his cross-examination of the witness, of Mr. Fung before we took a
break, and it was during that recess that the attorneys involved sought
to find out if indeed they could locate the original page 4. And, your
Honor, what Mr. Scheck said at transcript page 22776 is, "Your Honor, I
would like to do two more things, and I'm finished questioning this
witness. What I would like to do is first have printed out on the elmo a
copy of the document with the eraser," different document, "and then,"
in other words, a second thing, "I would ask that each of these
documents be handed to the jury so that they can examine them." both of
those items were done. The document was collected back from the jury.
And reporter's transcript--unfortunately I have 2278 which has to be a
page short, but within a few pages right after that, he said, "I have no
further questions." and at that point in time, the Court took a recess.
And so the record is clear, that he had rested indeed before the recess.
And at that point in time, the Prosecutors looked to see if they could
find where the original page 4 was, and they found it. Now, it was clear
from the questioning that Mr. Scheck made of Mr. Fung that that was a
tactical decision on their part to handle it in that manner. Their
remedy--now, this was, your Honor, a discovery order that the Court
made. The remedy for discovery violation--well, the common sense thing
which has been done throughout this case by the Defense is to come to us
and say, "Hey, we didn't get x discovery," you know, in an informal
basis. They could have done that and they never did that at any point in
time. The next thing they should have done would be to go to the Court
and say, "We want a sanction of some kind. We want a hearing on this
missing original page 4. We want a hearing to determine if there's any
impropriety on the D.A.'s part with regard to this original page 4."
that was their remedy under the Court's discovery order. Did they do
that? No. They elected instead to use it in a technical--tactical rather
maneuver to confront--seek to confront the witness with its absence. So
what they did and what's critical here and what I don't believe we
articulated last time we visited this issue, but what is critical, your
Honor, is that when the Defense made that decision, they waived
enforcement of the Court's discovery order. They waived its enforcement
by pursuing the course that they did rather than demanding an
explanation or demanding an inquiry.

*THE COURT:* Do you know of any case authority that would characterize
that situation or anything similar as a waiver?

*MS. LEWIS:* I don't have a case, your Honor. The black--we've cited in
our brief the definition of waiver from black's law dictionary which
really applies. I would like to read it into the record. "A waiver is
defined as the intentional or voluntary relinquishment of a known right
or such conduct as warrants an inference of the relinquishment of such
right or when one dispenses with a performance of something he is
entitled to exact or when one in possession of any right, whether
conferred by law or by contract, with full knowledge of the material
facts does or forbears to do something, the doing of which or the
failure or forbearance to do which is inconsistent with a right or his
intention to rely upon it." particularly that latter sentence, your
Honor, the--it's a lengthy definition, but the latter portion of it,
"When one in possession of any right, whether conferred by law or
contract, with full knowledge of the material facts," which they had
full knowledge of the material fact, "does or forbears to do something,"
and they forbore to do, they forwent pursuing the appropriate remedy,
which would be a discovery sanction and an inquiry of the Court and the
Court making inquiry of the Prosecution to see if this was an
intentional violation which warranted sanctions, they forwent doing
that. And that's what this says. "they do or forbear to do something,
the doing of which or the failure or--or forbearance to do which is
inconsistent with a right or intention to rely upon it." so their
actions were indeed inconsistent with that right they had to that remedy
under the discovery laws. And that was clear to us during the--the
consultation which went on during the brief 15-minute recess. It was
clear to us, it was clear to the D.A.'s involved that they had elected
not to pursue that avenue. They had indeed confronted the witness with
it. Now, your Honor, the--so, your Honor, the black's law dictionary
defining "waiver" is directly on point here. Now, I do want to make the
point that the Defense has apparently on more than one occasion
attempted to make a mountain out of a molehill. And, Judge, frankly this
wasn't even a molehill. This was a blank page as the Court has noted.
There was nothing here. And it shows frankly how desperate the Defense
has been in some areas in coming up with a Defense in this case and it's
demonstrated also by their shotgun Defense, but I mean, this is just one
example of where they have tried to make something out of really hole
cloth. And instead of pursuing the honest, the normal, the truth-seeking
appropriate remedies under the discovery law, which the discovery laws
encourage from both sides, they decide to try and use it as a tactical
maneuver. And when they did that, it backfired and it blew up in their
face and they created their own problem by having done that. Now, I do
want to make a point. When the Prosecution, when Mr. Goldberg who was
brought into the case after the search and seizure had been litigated,
when he inadvertently referred to the airline ticket and the baggage
ticket, which was evidence which was only favorable to the Defense
frankly because it showed indeed that Mr. Simpson had a pre-planned trip
to Chicago, where he had apparently been, when they made a big deal of
that--they made a big deal of it twice. And in the second instance--and
in fact, Mr. Goldberg I believe was admonished once. I don't recall
exactly what happened with the second time. But again, they made a big
deal of that. And what did they end up doing? They ended up withdrawing
their objection to 15 and 16. And initially when they tried to do
that--I think Mr. Scheck was the first to try and do that, and it
appeared to me that Mr. Cochran didn't want to give that up as a
possible avenue on appeal or something, whatever, to make more of. But
they utilized that the most they could to try and dig a knife into Mr.
Goldberg when he had really done--he had violated the Court's previous
order, which he was unaware. And it's too bad that it happens. I know he
regrets that it happened. But it was certainly not--pardon?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. LEWIS:* And he was humiliated. He was indeed humiliated by the
Court and degraded because of that inadvertent good faith error that he
made. So the Defense now is seeking to capitalize on the Court--you
know, as the Court knows, we as Prosecutors are held to a very high
standard, and we're often held to a higher standard and--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. LEWIS:* Right. And just to finish the point with regard to the
airlines ticket, the airline ticket and the baggage ticket, they made
it--I think I just made this point, but they made a big point about
these documents and then later stipulated that they were admissible. So
clearly, you know, where was the good faith in seeking to have Mr.
Goldberg humiliated and sanctioned in front of the jury with regard to
that. That just shows that that was game playing. Now, the point I was
trying to make, as we know as Prosecutors, that we are obliged to the
highest standard under the law and we do the best we can to fulfill our
ethical obligations. We're also servants of the People of the State of
California and we're beholden to those people to be as vigorous
advocates in favor of the truth and having the truth come out as we are
allowed under the law and under our ethical obligations to be. And we
have done that in this case and we have consistently tried to uphold
that integrity of the oath of our offices as Prosecutors. And to have
the Defense turn around and try and blame our side of the table for
something that their own tactical error caused them to be embarrassed by
is just incomprehensible. It's not fair, your Honor, it's not fair to
the Prosecution and we should not be sanctioned. It's just not
warranted. The one aspect that the Court had expressed concern about I
believe is satisfied by the objective indication that the Defense had
indeed waived their right to rely on the Court's discovery order. That
is the only--the only hole one might have, you know, considered in the
previous argument that we made in this regard. But we do not deserve to
be sanctioned, your Honor. We had a limited period of time to make a
very strong decision. And I believe our decision was a correct one.
Though I did not happen to participate, I believe I would have made the
same decision because it was clear the Defense had waived any other kind
of enforcement when they decided to--when Mr. Scheck decided to
make--try and make a big deal of this in front of Mr. Fung.

*THE COURT:* But waiver, to be a valid waiver requires full knowledge,
doesn't it? And if they don't know that you've got it, how is that a
knowledgeable or complete waiver?

*MS. LEWIS:* They waived it because they waived inquiry. They waived
inquiry. Now, you know--

*THE COURT:* But they're not entitled to rely upon your
representation--and when I say generically "your representation," I mean
the Prosecution.

*MS. LEWIS:* I understand.

*THE COURT:* That's--"these are the documents, here they are." they
can't rely upon your integrity or the Prosecution's integrity that this
is in fact a complete set of documents.

*MS. LEWIS:* I don't think they're--I don't think it was reasonable
reliance.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. LEWIS:* Your Honor?

*THE COURT:* We need to wrap this up.

*MS. LEWIS:* Your Honor, the--they were entitled to seek to ascertain
the truth and they were entitled to the Court's order which the Court
was convinced it should give with regard to these documents.
It--considering the--I'm told we're up to 28,000 items of evidence pages
and including altogether 28,000 items of evidence we have turned over to
the Defense. They have not hesitated to bring it to our attention
previously when they've been aware or when it's become apparent to them
that there was some mix up of some--in some manner, that they didn't get
something that they wanted. And in this instance when--I don't know if
it was Mr. Hodgman or Mr. Yochelson--whomever discovered that we had
inadvertently failed to turn over one particular original, that showed
our good faith. If we knew, we would have done it. But no, I don't think
in this situation--they don't come to this with clean hands, your Honor.
The equities are not in favor of the Defense on this, not when we've had
a past history of dealing with them repeatedly throughout the 11 months
that we've been in this--10 months, 11 months we've been in this case
now. Repeatedly dealt with them on an informal basis. So if there's
anything they didn't want--Mr. Hodgman has sat I know, your Honor, in
chambers with the lawyers with regard to all this DNA stuff on countless
occasions trying to all--comply with all of this informally and trying
not to have to burden the Court with too many discovery matters. The
Court has heard a lot of them, but there's been a lot done informally
that we've not had to burden the Court with. So to make an issue, make a
mountain out of something that doesn't even come to a molehill, it's not
even a grain of sand or a piece of--a little tiny piece of dirt in this
instance is really unfair and it's unfair to the Prosecution, your Honor.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. I think we've used our allotted time.

*MS. LEWIS:* Can I just have one moment, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. LEWIS:* Your Honor, we--I just do want to make the final point.
And we do have in our papers that the Prosecution has been sanctioned
numerous times in this case and, you know, the Court made those
determinations, but we have been sanctioned numerous times. We've just
this morning heard of a--through an offer of proof from Mr. Blasier with
regard to what an expert has told them, something that we've had no
discovery of. So we're still on this. And I also want to draw the
Court's attention briefly to the beta tapes. There was a day when Mr.
Scheck said, "We have no beta tapes, period."

*THE COURT:* Well, counsel, that's really apples and oranges. I don't
evaluate all of these things as a running continuum necessarily. This is
a specific order and a specific incident. So let's confine our comment
to that. And, counsel, you've exceeded the amount of time. All right.

*MS. LEWIS:* All right. Thank you, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Thank you, counsel. Mr. Scheck, any response that you find
necessary?

*MR. SCHECK:* Just briefly to the substance, and I won't take the bait
of--I don't know why they always have to say something about my honesty
every time this issue comes up when they get the facts wrong. It's--in
any event, my concern is that when they came back and said, "This
l-16/32 we found in Mr. Fung's notebook," middle of cross, when even an
issue was made where is the original of that document, it's undated,
they were on notice that they might not have produced originals from his
notebook. And it appears from the testimony very clear that the process
of fielding the originals and to the extent we can even be sure these
are still originals comes from SID, from Mr. Fung, Mr. Matheson, through
the Prosecutors. Then there are all these questions on redirect
examination trying to bolster the--and vouch for the way in which Mr.
Fung and Mr.--Mr. Fung in SID, how honest they are, how the documents
themselves can be trusted, that they don't throw anything away, that
they don't tamper with them in any way. And one point I think is worth
noting. They keep on saying it's a blank page, and, therefore, it had no
evidentiary significance. That was the point, that it was a blank page.
That frankly is still the point. And we still have in those documents
this whole line of proof--I know they don't like it--that there was some
manipulation of Mr. Simpson's blood vial, that it was mislabeled, it was
item 18, indicating it was received after the sneakers. This is still a
contested issue in this trial as to the amount of blood in the vial.
It's going to be a contested issue all the way to the end. So I think
that this is a significant point as to the credibility of the witness,
and I don't think there's any issue that they not only intentionally did
not comply with the order; they didn't give us a chance to deal with it
as an advocate can. They tried to attack not only our credibility of
advocates, but most importantly, they tried to vouch for the credibility
of the way they handle discovery and credibility of the witness on this
issue of some--of real importance to the case. So those are the elements
that it seems to me we're--I think that they have compounded since this
issue first arose and that the Court really should take care of in the
order. It's clear they vio--they misled us. They were on notice of the
source of their mistake. They didn't take any action to change that, if
indeed it is the original. They exploited it intentionally. They then on
redirect examination vouched for the credibility of the witness. So I
think that we're entitled to the elements that I think we're missing
from the Court's charge about the vio--their violation of the law in the
first instance, their intentional misconduct in the second instance,
their misleading us, whether it's by mistake at first and negligence
certainly at least second, and finally that their efforts--their
intentional misconduct was in the way they conducted the redirect to try
to vouch, I think we're entitled to that element of the charge that the
jury may consider the failure and the intentional failure to bring this
to the Defense's attention on the credibility of the witness, because it
was the--it did reflect on the witness and it was something that they
were vouching for in terms of the proper handling of the documents in
discovery. So I think we're entitled to all those elements. And again, I
urge the Court, they delayed this by every means possible. So now we're
really at a point that again, if the Court is not going to give a strong
charge on this, it's not worth doing it. It's more of a problem for us
than it's worth.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. All right. I'm going to
review some of the commentary in the transcript before I issue the
ruling on this. And at that point, after I issue a ruling, I'll give
the--both parties an opportunity to look at that before I go forward.
All right. Also, I would like counsel to consult in the meantime about
what peeked my interest earlier today, the comment about--by Mr. Blasier
about in the offer of proof regarding EDTA testing, whether or not
there's a discovery issue there. That should be handled informally
first. If I need to take it up, we'll do that on Monday. All right.

*MS. LEWIS:* Your Honor, Mr. Blasier mentioned to me he had a plane--he
was hoping to get out by noon. I don't know if he's still here.

*THE COURT:* No. I know. But I understand, since we have five other able
lawyers here, that somebody here knows about this. All right. Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes, your Honor. When would you like to take up the issue
of the DNA boards for Dr. Tylick, who I believe will be beginning to
testify sometime on Monday?

*THE COURT:* All right. Have we displayed those?

*MR. CLARKE:* We had a viewing by the Defense of the various boards, and
I believe Mr. Neufeld indicated there may be some objections to some of
them. They are upstairs and somewhat voluminous, but at least they're heavy.

*THE COURT:* All right. Then why don't we do this 8:00 o'clock Monday.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, if they have to change the boards, I don't know if
that's--we can indicate--I don't know.

*THE COURT:* Well, I mean, are counsel available this afternoon? Mr. Clarke?

*MR. CLARKE:* Did the Court have a particular time in mind?

*THE COURT:* Well, I would like to get some lunch one of these days. You
want to come back say at 1:30, 2:00 o'clock informally, and we'll just
take our coats off, look at these things and see what we got?

*MR. CLARKE:* That's fine.

*THE COURT:* All right. 2:00 o'clock.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, is it possible to mark one of the printouts
that was not previously marked of the blood vial? And I don't know
whether we need to separately mark our little red--

*THE COURT:* Let's do that Monday.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So can we take them or leave them in the Court's
custody.

*THE COURT:* No. Leave it in the Court's custody.

*MR. CLARKE:* Was that to be 1:30 or 2:00, your Honor? I'm sorry.

*THE COURT:* 2:00 o'clock. And we won't have a court clerk.

/(At 12:50 P.M. an adjournment was taken until, Monday, May 8, 1995,
9:00 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California, )

plaintiff, )

vs. ) no. Ba097211 )

Orenthal James Simpson, )

Defendant. )

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Friday, May 5, 1995

Volume 140 Pages 26063 through 26238, inclusive

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*APPEARANCES:*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*FOR THE PEOPLE:* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*FOR THE DEFENDANT:* Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan, Esquire
2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California 90067
Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire Shawn
Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los Angeles,
California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian, Esquire
Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck, Esquire
Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C. Thompson,
Esquire

*ALSO PRESENT:* Maya Hamburger, Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_I N D E X_*

*__*Index for volume 140 pages 26063 - 26238

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day date session page vol.

Friday May 4, 1995 A.M. 26063 140

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*LEGEND:* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX* of witnesses

*PEOPLE'S*

Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Matheson, Gregory 140 (Resumed) 26066gb 26145bb (Further) 26198gb 26209bb

-----------------------------------------------------

*ALPHABETICAL INDEX* of witnesses

Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Matheson, Gregory 140 (Resumed) 26066gb 26145bb (Further) 26198gb 26209bb

*_EXHIBITS_*

*__PEOPLE'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

227 - photograph of 26076 140 a pipetter

228 - disposable 26077 140 Pipetter tip

229 - photograph of 26104 140 a glass vial with red substance being held
in an upright position by a finger

230 - photograph of 26104 140 a microcentrifuge tube

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*DEFENSE* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

1143-A thru g - 26172 140 Photograph of a slide presentation of EAP on nails

