*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; MONDAY, MAY 1, 1995 10:05 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(Pages 24956 through 24982, volume 136a, transcribed and sealed under
separate cover.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, counsel. Back on the record in
the Simpson matter. All counsel are again present, Mr. Shapiro, Mr.
Cochran, Mr. Scheck, Mr. Blasier, Mr. Neufeld. The People are
represented by Miss Clark, Mr. Darden and Mr. Goldberg. The jury is not
present. All right. Let's have the jurors, please.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, we have a number of matters that need to be
resolved before we take Mr. Matheson. I'm wondering if you want to do
that now.

*THE COURT:* Yes, perhaps we should. Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* There are several matters. There is the ruling on the
serology chart.

*THE COURT:* All right. I received letter briefs from counsel on both
sides with regard to that issue. Mr. Blasier, do you have any further
comment you wish to make on that issue that is not included in your
letter brief?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, the People just filed--at least they handed me an
unfiled copy of further paperwork on this this morning. I don't know if
the Court has had a chance to review this or not.

*THE COURT:* I was handed something and told that was going to be
resubmitted.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then I said that we were not. There was one
typographical error which I corrected in hand and then dated it so that
the Court can look at it.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mrs. Robertson, would you grab that off of my desk.

*MR. BLASIER:* As I understand the argument in this new paperwork, the
People are taking the position that there should be no testimony about
the EAP b results of the blood under Nicole Brown Simpson's fingernails
on the basis that they are now saying that unless they can testify about
these other inconclusive results, this now becomes an inconclusive, and
that argument makes no sense to me. First of all, I'm not sure how to
respond to it because it is a senseless argument. There are a number of
statements--

*THE COURT:* You mean to say it is a contradictory argument. Go ahead.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. Both. I mean, there are other statements in this
brief that are just flat not true. They talk about how the typing
results for the pool of blood under Nicole Brown Simpson showing a
banding pattern consistent with a type b and they say that this result
was called an inconclusive B. I would like to have marked, Mr.
Matheson's report on this.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Deft's 1126 for id = document)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you. Mr. Blasier, if you will look at page 2 of
this report you will see that item no. 42, which is the blood under
Nicole Brown Simpson, Mr. Matheson concluded that it was an
inconclusive; not an inconclusive b, but an inconclusive. If you look
also at the blood on Nicole Brown Simpson's thigh, which is item no.
85-a and b, in this brief they just filed it is described as an
inconclusive BA. In Mr. Matheson's report--

*THE COURT:* No. 85.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes. In Mr. Matheson's report it is an inconclusive; it
is not an inconclusive BA. The--you will also note that the fingernails,
which were items 84-a and b, are not inconclusive at all; they are a b,
a straight b, and to represent otherwise it is just simply not
scientifically correct. Now, they may try to explain, well, it sure
looks like a b but maybe it was a BA at some point in time, and we are
prepared to deal with that particular argument, but to change the result
to say they were inconclusive before but now we need to make them
something else, it is scientifically fraudulent in our view and should
not be permitted. So we would submit the matter with those comments on
this brief that they just filed, as well as what I've already submitted
in my brief before.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Actually, your Honor, it would be scientifically
fraudulent not to admit them and that is why we felt so strongly about
this and have insisted on this, to the extent that we have, in filing a
number of points and authorities, and making a variety of arguments. We
would like to call Mr. Matheson in a 402 hearing because we do believe
that when the Court understands these issues and they are not--it is not
immediately apparent why the Prosecution is taking the position that we
are and why the Defense is taking the position that they are. In fact,
there is a certain aspect to it that is counter-intuitive, because if
you just look at the results on their face, the EAP result of the pool
of the victim's blood being an inconclusive b is inconsistent with the
Defendant and is inconsistent with the victims in this case and would
seem to lend a theory that someone else deposited it, so you would think
that the Defense should be seeking to get that result in, that the
Prosecution would be seeking to exclude that result, because why would
we want to put on a result, a--albeit an inconclusive one, that is
inconsistent with anyone in this case. Why would the Defense want to
exclude that result? It does seem to be counter-intuitive. But when the
Court understands that scientifically, we know that the pool of the
victim's blood has to be her blood and therefore we know that the true
type is a BA and we know that that is not what we see when we test it,
that tells us something about what is happening under the environmental
conditions at the crime scene and it tells us that type EAP BA blood is
degrading in such a manner as to create the appearance of a B. And I
think Mr. Matheson can communicate this to the Court that I cannot and
that is why we would seek to put him on for the purposes of explaining
this and perhaps using a chart that we have that we would use with the
jury to explain what this banding pattern looks like when it is not
degraded, what it looks like when it is degraded, to explain the
scientific literature that identifies this problem that we quoted in our
most recent brief and to discuss the literature that says that according
to some analysts you are required, as a forensic scientist, to look at
the pool of blood and blood on the victim's clothing as a control study
to determine whether or not you in fact have degradation on this one
particular marker, because it has certain problems in terms of
degradation that the other markers could not have.

And we have cited the literature which says that Mr. Matheson is
required, according to these authors, to do the precise thing that he is
doing and that he should not, if you accept these authors, express an
opinion about the blood under her fingernails unless he has also looked
at what is happening in the pool of blood and the blood that is on her
clothing or on her person. Now, counsel has given you a copy of the
analyzed evidence report which says--which simply reports inconclusives.
It does not give an indication as to whether it is an inconclusive b or
an inconclusive BA or what have you. On the electrophoresis work sheet,
which in light of counsel's argument I should probably also mark, only
unfortunately my copy has writing on it--I would like to give the Court
a clean copy. I'm going to get a clean copy to mark, but it talks about
the EAP result on 84-a and b which are the fingernail scrapings and 85-a
and b which are the dots of blood that came from Nicole Brown Simpson's
thigh. And the way that it is called on the electrophoresis work sheet,
which is the one which is done contemporaneously with the testing while
you are actually looking at the plate, the analyzed evidence report is
an external document for the Court and the attorneys and so on, but was
actually a document that is generated at the time of the analysis, what
Mr. Matheson says on 84-a and b, that being the fingernails, is b
question mark and the question mark typically--

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Goldberg, let's cut to the chase here. Let's
assume as a result of this challenge the Court needs to conduct a 402
hearing. What is your time estimate as to how long that will take? And
how do you suggest we accomplish this as expeditiously as possible,
understanding we have a jury sitting in the jury room?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I understand that, your Honor, and I don't like 402
hearings and I don't believe that 402 hearings should almost ever be
done with live testimony, so this is not--this is contrary to my
ordinary practice, because I understand what the Court is afraid of
here, and that is that it is going to turn into a little bit of a mini
trial on an issue where the Prosecution feels that there is no factual
or legal issue for the Court to resolve. The bottom line conclusion that
Mr. Matheson is going to give is that based on the totality of the
evidence that he has in front of him, that the EAP results under the
victim's fingernails are in fact a BA.

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Goldberg I asked you two specific questions. How
long is this going to take and how do you suggest we do it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. CLARK:* Could we have a moment, your Honor? Thank you.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* The way I would suggest it, is this: Counsel has
raised an objection to the People's chart. They haven't tried to limit
the scope of Mr. Matheson's testimony or somehow force him into giving
an opinion that is scientifically unsound and is contrary to what he
believes as a forensic scientist, so what I would suggest is this: If
the Court still has a problem with the chart itself for some reason,
after looking at the People's brief and the Court believes that it would
be helpful to hear more about this issue, then Mr. Matheson should
simply be allowed in front of the jury to testify as to this result, to
other results, to how he has interpreted them, to the forensic science
literature and what he believes the literature requires in making this
kind of an interpretation and his bottom line opinion. And after that I
think it will become clear to the Court that the chart itself should
come in as well as summarizing what is actually placed on the
electrophoresis work sheet because the electrophoresis work sheet does
in fact provide the 85 as a BA question mark or an inconclusive BA and
all of our results to the chart do in fact come either from the
electrophoresis work sheet or from the analyzed evidence report, so it
is a summary of business records.

*THE COURT:* Are you suggesting that I conduct this 402 hearing in the
course of the presentation of Mr. Matheson?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes, yes.

*THE COURT:* I've heard that before. Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* We certainly object to that and let me make it clear we
are not objecting to Mr. Matheson testifying as to how a BA degrades and
what makes it look like a B. We are fully prepared to cross-examine him
on that issue. But what we are objecting to is inconclusive results are
anything other than that on and analyzed evidence report that he
prepared was prepared after the work sheets and was based on the
observation of the other work sheets. This is the report that he
submitted for the attorneys and for the Court and for everyone else who
wants to know these are the results that he called and he called them
inconclusive and we object to him testifying to anything other than that.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you. All right. The Court finds that this
particular issue as presented is an issue that goes to the weight of the
testimony, the weight that is accorded to the testimony; not necessarily
its admissibility. However, having said that, the Court anticipates that
we are going to see rather extensive cross-examination as to this
particular issue and I have to indicate to counsel for the Prosecution
that given Mr. Matheson's original report, I suspect I'm going to have
to give rather wide range to the Defense as to these "Inconclusive
indications and degrading samples." let's have the jurors.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, there are other issues as well.

*THE COURT:* Such as?

*MR. BLASIER:* The Prosecution just brought in a new chart this morning
on this very issue, the fingernail, and we have no objection to anything
on the chart except there is a picture of Nicole Brown Simpson's body
from a long-shot that I think it may have been used before in some other
context, but it has no meaning really on this particular chart, and we
think it is really gruesome and unnecessary.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg, will you get to that chart before we break
for lunch?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I don't anticipate that I will, but it is possible.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's assume that we are not going to get to it
and I will take a look at it over the lunch hour. I would like to get
rolling.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I believe it is a photo that has been introduced. And
counsel has another motion.

*THE COURT:* It has to have some relevance, though, but I will look at
it over the lunch hour.

*MR. BLASIER:* We did have an additional motion that Mr. Neufeld is
prepared to argue that we filed this morning concerning the order of
proof. In essence we are objecting to his testifying to any test results
on Mr. Simpson's blood without proper foundation of the person who drew
the blood. And Mr. Neufeld is prepared to--

*THE COURT:* Well, I assume I will hear that objection as soon as there
is some testimony regarding the blood, foundational objection.

*MR. BLASIER:* And finally there was a brief filed on Thursday, I
believe, about the business records exception and--

*THE COURT:* Regarding chain of custody?

*MR. BLASIER:* Regarding chain of custody. We have no objection to
testimony from Mr. Matheson about what amounts to ministerial acts,
putting things in packages and sending them off to any other labs, and
we would object if they have any intention of offering testimony from
Mr. Matheson about tests that some other person did or evidence
collection that some other person did under that exception. But I
understand from Mr. Goldberg, they don't intend to do that, so that may
be a moot point.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I don't have a present intention of doing that.

*THE COURT:* Terrific. Glad to hear it. Let's have the jurors.

*MR. BLASIER:* Finally, we would object in advance, to avoid a side bar,
that if they intend to ask Mr. Matheson any questions about anything our
experts have done, either at some other location or in Los Angeles, we
object to that and want to be heard about that before that is done.

*THE COURT:* All right. That would seem appropriate. Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I do have a present intention of doing that, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* This morning's session?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I don't think we are going to get to it this morning.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Give me a head's up when that comes so we can discuss
that out of the presence. Let's have the jurors, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. Let the record reflect that we have been rejoined by all the
remaining members of our jury panel. Previously in chambers the Court
conferred with counsel. The Court has found good cause to excuse from
further service juror no. 2. Mrs. Robertson, would you please draw a
number of an alternate juror to take seat no. 2.

*THE CLERK:* Juror no. 1427, will you please have a seat in seat no. 2.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mrs. Robertson, at the noon break, you will
renumber the seats and provide Court and counsel with a revised juror chart.

*THE CLERK:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, would you call the People's next
witness.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes. The People call Gregory Matheson to the stand.

/Gregory Matheson, called as a witness by the People, was sworn and
testified as follows:/

//*THE CLERK:* Please raise your right hand. You do solemnly swear that
the testimony you may give in the cause now pending before this Court,
shall be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help
you God.

*MR. MATHESON:* I do.

*THE CLERK:* Please have a seat on the witness stand and state and spell
your first and last names for the record.

*MR. MATHESON:* Gregory Matheson, G-R-E-G-O-R-Y M-A-T-H-E-S-O-N.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Goldberg.

*_DIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. GOLDBERG_*

*__MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, what is your occupation and your assignment?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm employed by the city of Los Angeles working for the
Los Angeles Police Department Crime Laboratory. I am currently what is
called a Chief Forensic Chemist 1 which is an assistant director of the
laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And sir, in that capacity or in any other, are you
part of any conspiracy in this case to frame the Defendant?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I am not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Or part of any cover-up for the purposes of framing the
Defendant?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I am not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, you said you are the Chief Forensic Chemist?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. That is the title.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what--why is it called that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that is a civil service class that it was assigned
to that position a while back. It exists in two steps; the Chief
Forensic Chemist 1, which is an assistant director position, and the
Chief Forensic Chemist 2 which is the laboratory director.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And how many Chief Forensic Chemists are
there in the crime laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there is a total of three; one director and two
assistants.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I'm going to get into your training and experience
in a few moments, but did you perform some of the conventional
serological testing on some of the biological evidence in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And also, did you participate in managing the
sending of items out for analysis to outside laboratories?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, do you have a degree that qualified you
to become a criminalist at the Los Angeles Police Department?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what was your degree in?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I have a degree in criminalistics from California
State University at Long Beach.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When did you get that, sir?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was in May of 1977.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And I want to ask you about some of the other courses
that you took since then. Do you have your curriculum vitae in front of you?

*MR. MATHESON:* (Nods head up and down.)

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you need to refer to that to give us specific dates
and times?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*THE COURT:* The record should reflect that Mr. Matheson does have
before him a ring binder with a number of pages in it.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, since you graduated in 1977, have you taken a
fairly large number of courses in furtherance of your training and
experience as a criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* At that point it depends on what you mean by "Courses."
I have had a handful of what I would call formal training or courses,
along with attendance in a number of seminars and meetings and that type
of thing.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I just want to go through some of the courses and
seminars that are pertinent to the issue of serology. And let's start
with the 1982, two-week FBI class. What was that about?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in 1982 I took a two-week course called buy
chemical methods of blood stain analysis that was offered at the FBI
academy in Quantico, Virginia. That was mainly about the electrophoretic
determination of genetic marker types. It is the steps or the process
that is used in what has been called in conventional serology to
identify the types of enzymes that are present in the body.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Just so that we are defining some of these terms,
when you say "Conventional serology," that is distinguished from what?

*MR. MATHESON:* That term came around as DNA analysis in forensics
started becoming possible or used within the field. In a way to define
the difference, we started calling the systems and techniques that we
had used for many years as conventional and the rest as being DNA.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you say "Electrophoretic techniques," we will
get into this in some more detail further down the line, but can you
just give us a simple definition?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, electrophoresis is a process or a technique
whereby a gel is poured, sample of biological material is placed on the
one end of it, an electrical current is passed through it and the end
product is a sequence of bands that can be interpreted to tell what you
type of blood you are looking at.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And were these techniques, the electrophoretic
techniques and ABO type testing, around for a significant period prior
to the use of DNA technology?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they were.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in 1987 did you attend a serology symposium?

*MR. MATHESON:* At--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Dealing with collection and preservation of evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* There was a symposium held that year which involved
attendance by a large number of forensic scientists mainly in the
California area. I did attend it; however, I was also one of the working
groups that met with one of the committees for several months prior to
that in preparation of the meeting. The area that I was involved in was
standards and training.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And what was the focus of this particular symposium?

*MR. MATHESON:* The focus of that symposium which was to elicit what was
the standard practice or the consensus of practice within the forensic
community at that point in time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In terms of what?

*MR. MATHESON:* What we were calling conventional serology.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did this deal with any of the collection and
preservation aspects or just the testing aspects?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it also involved a collection and preservation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was there any product that was generated as a result
of the symposium, such as a manual or pamphlet or publication?

*MR. MATHESON:* There was kind of a loose-covered document that I don't
know the number of pages. It is about a quarter of an inch thick.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And did that cover the subjects of the
collection, preservation and the conventional testing?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, was a lot of focus placed at this
serology symposium into the mechanics of how you actually collect a
stain from a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* The actually getting down on your knees--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Right.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it didn't go into that aspect of it very much at all.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you know why?

*MR. MATHESON:* The only reason that I can--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, you were part of this working group?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. The working group I was in dealt with training.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Has the actual mechanics of how you collect a
stain been a controversial issue or a widely discussed issue in the
forensic field?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it is not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why not?

*MR. MATHESON:* Because it is a fairly basic process. Even in reviewing
a number of forensic tests, there--texts, there is very little reference
to that step. They talk about locating the stains and eventually then,
you know, packaging and preserving them, but the actual collection is
not addressed very often.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, going back to some of the courses that you took, in
1989 did you take, I guess, two classes at the University of New Haven,
Connecticut?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, they were held at the university, however, they
were--you know, it wasn't like a university course, but it was held at
that facility.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And can you tell us what the two classes were?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, one of them dealt with the ABO typing of bone
samples and the other one was an overview of DNA.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say "ABO typing," you are referring to what?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that is--it is a fairly common what we call
genetic marker. As a matter of fact, it is the genetic marker that most
people are aware of. You are either a type a, type b, type o or type AB,
and that is a system that hospitals usually use when they are
cross-matching bloods for transfusions.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that also used in blood banking?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, what is commonly referred to as your blood type.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How long has that system been around?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it was originally identified at the turn of
the century, 1900.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So one of these courses dealt with--was it just ABO
typing of bones or also--or did it also deal with electrophoresis?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, that was strictly ABO.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And you said the other course had to do with DNA
techniques?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what type of DNA techniques did that deal with?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it was mainly about RFLP, but we also spoke
about the PCR technique.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And those are two of the techniques that are used in DNA
typing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was this course instructed by a leading advocate of
using DNA technology in forensic cases?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Was the person that taught this course in favor of
using DNA technology in a forensic setting?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, actually it was taught by several different
people. They brought in several different speakers to talk on different
subjects, but yes, most of the people that were there were there because
they believe in the technology.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was there any particular individual that is
prominent in the forensic field that taught this course?

*MR. MATHESON:* One of the people that was involved in both setting the
course up and presenting it was a Dr. Henry Lee, which is the head of
the Connecticut State crime laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does he advocate using or support using DNA
technology in forensic cases?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, foundation, hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, did he actually teach some of the courses--one of
the courses that you attended?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe he was involved in presenting some of the
information.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Did he appear to be a supporter of using DNA
technology?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, he did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in January of 1990 did you take a two-week course
relating to DNA technology in forensic cases?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And where was that course held?

*MR. MATHESON:* That course was held at--in Denver, Colorado, at the
Analytical Genetic Testing Center.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did the course--how long of a period of time did
the course last?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it covered two weeks. The first week dealt with
the technique I mentioned before, RFLP typing in general, the basic
background to it, involved actually performing some of the tests. The
second week focused a little bit more on the technique that was used by
the FBI.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then in June of 1990 did you attend some training at
the University of New Haven Cetus Corporation?

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I object at this point as being irrelevant
and beyond this witness' expertise.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was that training?

*MR. MATHESON:* That was a course that was offered by the Cetus
Corporation which I believe at the time was the manufacturer of the PCR
kits that were being used for forensics, and it involved the theory and
practice and techniques in PCR analysis, along with some hands-on,
getting a chance to run the techniques ourselves.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And how long was that course?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it was five days.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in addition to these courses that we just
mentioned, did you attend seminars of the California association of
criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when did you start attending those seminars?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I became a member of the California association of
criminalists in 1979 and attended every seminar I could go to from that
time until now. I believe they are held twice a year and I think I have
only missed three or four over that time period.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How long are those seminars?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally two and a half days; full day Thursday and
Friday and half day on Saturday.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What range of topics do they cover?

*MR. MATHESON:* Just about anything to do with forensic sciences.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do they deal with serology issues in these seminars?

*MR. MATHESON:* Many times serology is one of the main topics of
discussion, both in the papers that are given and outside of them.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And by the way, what is serology?

*MR. MATHESON:* Serology deals with the analysis of body fluids.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, and you said that these seminars by the
California association of criminalists are twice yearly?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct; once in the fall and once in the spring.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And as a result of attending these seminars do you learn
the practices that are standard within the criminalistics profession?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is part of it. Like I said, the seminars have a
wide range of topics from particular techniques that may be used in the
future that are just becoming available to us, to hints and tips on how
to do, you know, current techniques better and just generally kind of
dealing with the--you know, the topic in general.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are the forensic scientists who attend these seminars
coming only from California or do they come from other places as well?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, they can come from just about anywhere. As a matter
of fact, our last meeting, which was held in the fall, was done in
conjunction with the forensic science society from England and we had a
number of attendees join us from England.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, is there also an organization known as the
American Academy Of Forensic Sciences?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are you a member of that organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you attend their seminars?

*MR. MATHESON:* I have attended about four of them, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how long are their seminars for?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, they tend to--the actual papers or technical
presentations are basically the same as a CAC meetings, the California
Association Of Criminalists, in that they are about two and a half days.
The meeting itself can run anywhere from six to eight days because there
is an awful lot of ancillary type of activity that goes on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that--are those seminars along the same line as
the California association of criminalists or do they differ?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in that they cover a lot of different areas of
forensics, they are the same. They are significantly larger, though,
because that is a national organization and it is composed of not just
criminalists, but forensic pathologists, odontologists and dentists, and
a lot of different areas in forensics, and each of these specialties are
meetings, you know, at the same time in different areas of the same
facility.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when you attend one of these meetings, do you go to
all of the presentations or just the ones that are involved in your area
of specialty?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, you can't go to all of them because a lot of them
are running at the same time. I try and not just stay with what I have
spent most of my time with and that is serology. I like to attend all
these that seem interesting or appropriate but will get out and get some
exposure to some of the other areas.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And as a result of attending these meetings do you also
get an idea of the standards and practices that are being used in the
forensic community on a nationwide basis?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, you mentioned this manual that was generated from
the serology symposium, but other than that, have you had the
opportunity or have you had time to publish papers yourself while you
have been working at the Los Angeles Police Department?

*MR. BLASIER:* Object to the form of that question as--

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I have never personally published any sort of scientific
paper.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, normally an awful lot of the papers that appear in
scientific journals and that type of thing deal with research,
validating existing systems, bringing new systems on line, that type of
thing. My interest has not been in research. I enjoy applying the
technology. I have always enjoyed doing case work, and a mere fact of
the fact that we are with the Los Angeles Police Department and out
criminalistics laboratory has a very high case load, there is
unfortunately a lot of crime in this city and it does keep us busy just
doing case work. So it is a combination of the two things. I don't have
a strong interest to get out there and push and do that and I enjoin
doing case work and there is plenty of case work to do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say "Case work," you are referring to what?

*MR. MATHESON:* Anything that comes into the laboratory associated with
a crime or incidents within the city of Los Angeles. It could range
from--the type of case which the laboratory gets run the gamut from
narcotics to serology cases associated with homicides and rapes to blood
alcohol analysis, just about anything.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Let's turn a little bit to your professional career.
When you were in school getting your degree in criminalistics, did you
work for any law enforcement agencies?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What agency did you work for?

*MR. MATHESON:* For the Culver City Police Department.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in what capacity did you work for the Culver City
Police Department?

*MR. MATHESON:* My title was a community service aid and then it got
changed to community service officer. Basically it was a student
position, it was part-time during school and then full-time during
vacations and holidays. I worked a couple of different assignments. I
was with them for about five and a half years. Initially I was assigned
to patrol where I would go out and assist with booking prisoners when
they came in and taking burglary reports, simple things. Occasionally I
would have to write parking ticket, that type of thing. I eventually,
actually as soon as I could, got transferred out of that area into our
identification unit because that interested me more, and in that unit I
learned how to process a crime scene, fingerprint burglary scenes,
photographed scenes, go out and fingerprint and photograph whatever type
of crime scene that happened to come up.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You said identification unit. What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, normally crime laboratories tend to exist only in
the larger cities, the counties, state, you know, federal government,
that type of thing. Small municipalities as a rule do not have crime
labs. They have called what are called ident sections or identification
sections. They focus in on evidence collection, fingerprinting and
photography.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you were working with the identification section at
the Culver City Police Department, were the people that you were working
with criminalists or did they have some other job classification?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we are talking about a small department. The
person that I worked directly with would be another civilian. It
happened that the two people that I worked for, they were
ident--identification technicians, they were both retired; one from the
Los Angeles Police Department as a fingerprint person and another was
retired from the L.A. County sheriffs as a fingerprint person.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did they also do things like collect biological evidence
or was it limited to fingerprints and the like?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. If there was a reason, if there was a crime that
involved biological stains or evidence, either they or I would,
depending on who handled the particular scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So they were collecting biological evidence even though
they were not criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Is that standard throughout the state in terms of
the way law enforcement agencies or many law enforcement agencies
collect biological evidence?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, sir, are you aware of the standard and practices
in a variety of law enforcement agencies as a result of your
participation in these various state and national organizations that you
have testified to?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, vague as to "A lot" of police agencies.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I am aware that the personnel that are used to perform
different tests varies from agency to agency.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do some agencies use criminalists, whereas other use
technicians, identification technicians?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, that is correct. I mean, in the case of the city of
Los Angeles we have criminalists, we do not have I.D. techs or
identification technicians. We use criminalists to collect that. As I
mentioned, many smaller municipalities that don't have crime labs have
their I.D. techs collect the evidence, and actually, there are some
cities that have their own crime lab that also hire I.D. techs who are
the ones that go out and process mainly the simple scenes, but process
scenes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, when did you first join the Los Angeles
Police Department as a criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was in June of 1978.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And by the way, are you a sworn personnel as a criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I am not. Our criminalists are civilians.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when you first joined the Los Angeles Police
Department in 1978, what was your first assignment?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I was hired in as a criminalist 1 and I was
assigned to the toxicology unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how long were you at the toxicology unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* I worked toxicology from June of 1978 until I believe it
was early January of 1980, so approximately 18 months.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was your next assignment after you were finished in
toxicology?

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. After working toxicology I was transferred to what
we call a special testing unit and in that unit I dealt with maintaining
a couple of analytical instruments, running some of the more unique or
unidentifiable drugs or narcotics, bomb debris analysis, poisons
analysis, variety of different things.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So what does special testing unit do in terms of--I
mean, do they just test anything and everything that is unknown or what?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, with the way our laboratory is laid out, the
special testing unit has some specific assignments, such as any sort of
bomb residue case, a poison case, that type of thing would go directly
to that unit. Bottom line, that basically the people that work that unit
get whatever doesn't fit into any of the other units. It is things that
may require some sort of unique or special handling.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You were there for 18 months you said?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually it was a little longer. I believe it was from
January of 1980 until I think it was August of `81, so that would be
about 20 months.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And where did you go after you were finished
with your assignment in special testing?

*MR. MATHESON:* After that I was assigned to serology.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how long were you assigned to the serology unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as a criminalist 2 or doing bench work would have
been until I believe it was May of 1988 when I was promoted to what was
called a crime 3 then which is our supervisor position.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Were you a supervisor in serology initially?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, you used another term, you said "Bench work."
is that the same as case work or different?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is a term that is used for the person that is
actually sitting working on the evidence doing the analysis is called
bench work.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. How long have you been a supervisor at the Los
Angeles Police Department and the crime laboratory? How many years?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually I probably should have referred to my notes
before. It was May of `89 when I was promoted, so it would be from May
of `89 until October of `94 that I was a supervisor.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when you were first a supervisor, were you
supervising anything other than serology at first?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, my unit was rolling. I was also a member of one of
our special field response teams that goes by the name of the forensic
accident investigation team. That was formed while I was a Crim 2.
Myself and two other criminalists were assigned to this. It was a
special assignment to go out and collect evidence from specialized crime
scenes, mainly those that were vehicular-related homicides, hit and
runs, that type of thing. When I became a supervisor in May of `89, I
was a supervisor then of serology plus of this team that I was on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you initially became a supervisor and you were
supervising this team in serology, did you still play an active role in
the bench work that was going on in the unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And in addition to that, did you also have
any function in terms of reviewing reports and confirming results and
the like?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. As supervisor of the unit, one of your goals is to
or jobs is to review the analytical notes that come out of the
criminalists or the analysts that work in the units. Before a report can
be submitted out, we want to have it reviewed by a supervisor and either
signed as being complete and accurate or returned to the analyst for
either correction or updating, whatever it would require.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Were you performing any function in terms of actually
reading other people's electrophoresis plates or photographs of the plates?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually for the first, oh, three plus years of being
supervisor of the unit, I was still doing case work. Obviously it wasn't
at the same level as I was before, but I was still an analyst within the
laboratory. In addition to that, these electrophoresis plates that I
previously described with the band on it, they were always co-read,
either the original person that did the run, plus somebody else that was
following up on it. It didn't have to be a supervisor, it could be a
co-worker. I continue, as a matter of fact to this date, still continue
to occasionally co-read plates.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, approximately six months ago did your
position within the crime laboratory change?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what did it change to?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in October of 1994 I was promoted to my current
position of Chief Forensic Chemist 1 and I currently manage what's
called the forensic analysis section of the crime laboratory, which
includes not only serology, but other units, such as our trace analysis
unit, chemical possessing unit, which does fingerprints in-house, our
firearms unit, the vali unit and questioned documents.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are you still performing bench work in this
capacity, generally speaking?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I have not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are you still performing work in terms of looking at
other people's electrophoresis plates and co-reading them?

*MR. MATHESON:* Occasionally. It is not near as often as it used to be
obviously, but if somebody has some work that has been completed and
they want it reviewed and there isn't anybody else available in the
unit, for whatever reason, then they have come and asked if I would go
back and do a co-reading on it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are there any plates that only you are qualified to read
or that you are--or that you have to read in the laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* There is one system that--called haptoglobin that I tend
to read more than anything else.

*THE COURT:* How do you spell haptoglobin?

*MR. MATHESON:* H-A-P-T-O-G-L-O-B-I-N, I think.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why is it that you tend to co-read that more than
others?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, everybody has their own interest when it comes to
a particular system or something within the unit. One of the
criminalists that works the unit now is the one that runs them the most
and she and I have worked together with it on the past, so I tend to
read them for her when she has one of these come available. I haven't
done it in I think it has probably been a month or month and a half, so
either she is not running that system as often or somebody else now in
the unit is training to co-read.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to some of the professional
organizations that we asked about, is there also an organization called
the American Board Of Criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is the American Board Of Criminalistics, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is that organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is an organization whose function--actually, sole
function, is the certification of criminalists on a national basis.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you play any active role in that organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* I was involved in forming it. I believe it was in 1987
or `88, a group of people was called together and I was one of those
that was invited to attend as a guest because I had some experience in
certification, program a meeting held back in Chicago, and out of that
meeting is eventually born the American Board Of Criminalistics, an
incorporated nonprofit organization. And as I said, I was part of that
original planning group of it, and then for the first two years of its
existence, which I believe it was from February of `90 of `92, I sat as
the vice-president of that organization.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say that this was involved in certifying
criminalists, what does that involve?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the process of certifying somebody is that you
want to know or have some sort of indication that they possess the basic
skills, you know, minimum skills and knowledge to be able to perform
their job. And in criminalistics, there was a lacking of a system like
this, particularly on a national basis, so what we did is in
establishing this organization, gave the profession of criminalists
throughout the country a body with which they could apply to, take a
test, do proficiency testing, these types of things, to be able to
demonstrate that they have the minimum criteria necessary to do this
type of work.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what type of showing does a person have to make or
criminalist have to make in order to get this certification?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there is actually a couple different levels of
this certification process. To be in the American Board Of
Criminalistics, to be what is called a diplomate, you have to have two
years experience in forensic science. You have to pass a written
examination that is on general criminalistics, not in any one particular
field, and be working in the field, actively working in it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you have that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, is there also an organization known as the
California association--well, we talked about the California association
of criminalists. You said you joined in 1979?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you hold any sort of positions within that
organization, other than just being a member?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in 1987 did you begin to hold an office in that
organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in 1987 I was--I was made the chair of the
certification committee. At that time the California association of
criminalists was interested in starting the certification program,
actually before the national effort began, and the first step toward
doing that is putting together a committee. I was the first chair of
that committee when it was formed, I believe it was either in January or
February of 1987, and I held that position until the program was
actually up and running and we were testing people and organizing
certificates.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And did your status in that organization
change in approximately May of 1990?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. In May of 1990 I was appointed to the position--a
board of directors position called the regional director south. Our
association is basically divided into north and south and I sat on that
position on the board of directors for one year.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then in May of 1991 did you run for president of
that organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did. Actually it is--you run for president elect.
It is a three-year committee. The first year you are president elect you
sit on the board, it is a board position, kind of learn the job. The
second year is as president of the association. The third year then is
the immediate past president where you still stay on the board, have an
active position in it, but it gives you a chance to wind down and assist
the current president.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you serve in that capacity for those three years?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So then your term ended in May of `94?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you continue to serve on any committees or any
organization within the California association of criminalists today?

*MR. MATHESON:* At the moment I currently belong to two committees. One
of then is the publication committee that is involved with putting
together our newsletter, and the other is a financial review committee.
I would have liked to have been more active on it, but I have been a
little busy lately, so though I belong to them, I haven't been as active
as I would like to be.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are you also a member of the California association of
crime lab directors?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is association that--I don't know what their
current membership is, I think it is probably in the eighty to ninety
range--that is made up of managers and supervisors of crime laboratories
mainly in California, but we also have members from other states.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And while you were working in the serology section of
the Los Angeles Police Department can you give us an estimation of
approximately how many ABO types--ABO tests you performed during that
period of time?

*MR. MATHESON:* I would like to--I didn't memorize those numbers. I did
make myself up a review chart of the type of tests and the quantities
that I did. During the course of my--my career in serology--

*THE COURT:* Hold on just a second. Let counsel review the chart that
you are referring to.

*THE COURT:* Sure.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, counsel. Proceed.

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. In the area of ABO typing I estimated that I have
done approximately 6500 of those type of tests.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And approximately how many electrophoresis tests
have you performed on something called PGM subtype?

*MR. MATHESON:* That would be--it was approximately a thousand.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, I would like to ask you a little bit about crime
scenes. Have you had any experience in actually going out to crime
scenes during your professional career at the Los Angeles Police
Department in processing crime scenes yourself?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And approximately how many crime scenes would you say
that you have processed?

*MR. MATHESON:* My best guess is about 150. I didn't have real good
statistics on that, but I think that is my best estimate. I think it is
conservative.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you ever rigged up any mock crime scenes for
training purposes?

*MR. MATHESON:* A couple, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And when you attend these seminars at the
California association of criminalists and the American Academy of
Forensic Sciences, do they cover to some extent--do they cover crime
scene investigation as some of the topics in those seminars?

*MR. MATHESON:* Sometimes they do, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you trained any people within the Los Angeles
Police Department in terms of crime scene investigation?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you trained any people outside of the SID section
in crime scene investigation techniques?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Who would that be?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I have been one of the instructors in a couple of
our detective training courses that we offer. One of them is the sexual
assault detective school. They obviously focus more on scenes and
evidence collection relating to sexual assault. I also have taught for a
couple of years in our homicide detective school, teaching them open the
division's capabilities, SID's capability when it came to crime scene
and simple evidence collection techniques. I also teach at a detective
supervisor school and we touch lightly on field techniques.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say "Evidence collection technique," have you
ever taught detectives how to collect a stain using LAPD's procedures?

*MR. MATHESON:* Talking about a biological stain?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why are detectives taught that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I--we want the detective to be able to have the
capability of collecting biological stains, blood drops, that type of
thing, if a criminalist isn't available. Though we do have an on-call
system where a criminalist is available to be called out anytime of the
day or night to assist with evidence collection, we are not always
called. Sometimes the--the scene may only have one or two drops or one
or two items. You don't feel it is necessary to call us, but that is
still evidence that we want to have captured for later analysis, so we
have been for I believe it is the last at least six or eight years,
training homicide detectives mainly on the proper techniques for
collecting biological evidence. We supply them with a blood collection
kit, which is simply a file box with the tools that are necessary in it
to collect those samples.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are they taught how to, you know, take a control and
use the distilled water and use the tweezers and the whole nine yards?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. They are both shown in a demonstration form. We
talk to them about it. It is demonstrated to them, and if time permits,
we have them practice it within the class.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are detectives in fact collecting biological
evidence in the Los Angeles Police Department and submitting it to your
laboratory for analysis?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, does the Scientific Investigations Division
also have a field unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that--who supervises that now?

*MR. MATHESON:* Right now the unit is--they have a lead criminalist or
what we call a criminalist 3 that is in charge of that unit. That person
also works in another unit. Our trace supervisor is the immediate
supervisor of them and then I manage it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, why wasn't the field unit assigned to processing
the evidence or collecting the evidence in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* The--deciding who ends up processing a scene is mainly a
function of what time the call comes in. Like I mentioned a few minutes
ago, we have people that are on call, criminalists that are on call 24
hours a day seven days a week. However, if a call comes in during
working hours, normal working hours, which for our field unit is 7:30 to
4:00 Monday through Friday, rather than send the off watch person who
may be up the night before or may be going out the following night, we
send somebody from this field unit to do the evidence collection.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is the field unit--are the people assigned to the field
unit necessarily more experienced in crime scene processing than the
individuals that are criminalists who are on rotation?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, not necessarily. They can be. Our field unit
consists only of Crim 2 individuals or those people that are advised to
the point where they could handle a crime scene by themselves if they
had to; however, they--we rotate people through that unit just like we
rotate people through our off-watch on-call situation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if in this case the evidence shows that there was a
Bronco search that occurred on the 14th during the daylight hours, why
would the field unit not respond to that, as opposed to Mr. Fung and
Andrea Mazzola?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, what we try and do is maintain some consistency
throughout a particular case. If it is possible, the person that handled
the scene, say, the night before or week before, if some sort of
follow-up occurrence occurs, like a car search or an additional scene,
we want the same people handling it that handled the original scene, so
in that case that is why we do not send out somebody from the field unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would you always have to--if you had two criminalists
that responded to the first scene on day no. 1, will you always send the
same two criminalists to the second scene or can just one or the other go?

*MR. MATHESON:* We can--it depends on the circumstances. We can just
send one of the team, or if neither one of them is available, we will go
and send somebody from another part of the laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But is there any rule that if you use two on day one,
you have to use the same two on day two?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And typically within the Los Angeles Police
Department Crime Laboratory do you always send two criminalists to
investigate a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* We try and get two people out to a scene whenever
possible, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are there instances where only one is sent?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we make an evaluation as to the complexity of the
scene. If it appears that it is going to be something very simple, maybe
a simple car search or something that involves going to a tow yard and
doing examination, there are times where we will send only one, but we
believe two people can do a better job.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was there ever any management decision that was made
not to send Andrea Mazzola out to subsequent--certain subsequent scenes
after the 14th?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as--I mean, there are obviously decisions made
when somebody is sent or not sent, so in that case it was. There has
never been a decision made that said she will not handle any more
scenes, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is what I meant, there was never a decision like that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if on a subsequent scene, because of the complexity,
you only needed one person, you would only send one person out?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is possible, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in this particular case, before testifying, have
you watched some of the proceedings or heard some of the proceedings on
television or on the radio?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have you heard some of the testimony and seen some
of the testimony related to the crime scene processing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you also speak to me about the testimony that
you were going to give?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What were the nature of those discussions?

*MR. MATHESON:* Mainly it was--it was a two-way thing. I was
in--preparing you for what I was going to be testifying to, just as you
would talk and tell me some of the areas that we were going to discuss.
Normally it is just acquainting each of us with styles and with general
topic areas that are going to be brought up during direct examination.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you also provide me with some instruction in terms
of how ABO typing and electrophoresis is performed and certain technical
topics such as that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. That was part of my comment about preparing you for
it. There has been kind of a training process going on to a quaint both
or to acquaint you with the techniques and the procedures that we use.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you also talked to any Defense lawyers and
given--provided them information about the case as we have progressed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there any rule within the LAPD crime laboratory
with respect to talking to Defense lawyers? I mean how does that work?

*MR. MATHESON:* The only rule that we have deals with discovery
materials and that is, is that if items are going to be released to the
Defense, that the Prosecution--Prosecutor's office is aware of it and
that if it isn't your own, that the original criminalist is aware that
this information is being provided. Beyond that there is no specific
rules about who you can or cannot talk to with regards to a case.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you talk to Defense lawyers?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is it common for criminalists to speak with the
person that is going to be calling them as a witness prior to getting on
the witness stand and testifying?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. It is not only common, it is preferred. We want to
make sure that everybody understands what is going on, that you have a
chance to discuss the issues.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Let's get a little bit into the issue of collecting
evidence. First of all, what does it mean, from a criminalistics
standpoint, to collect evidence at a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, collection involves everything from documenting
where the evidence is, describing the item of evidence that is being
collected, the actual process of picking the evidence up off of the
ground or off of whatever item it might happen to be, eventually
packaging and describing it for a property report and then what is
called booking it in or placing it into our property facility.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when evidence is collected at the--by a criminalist
at the Los Angeles Police Department Scientific Investigations Division,
do you use some sort of form in the field for the purposes of doing that?

*MR. MATHESON:* We have actually a couple Dennis Fung sets of forms, one
of them that I believe is called a crime scene checklist and the other
is a vehicle search checklist.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I wanted to show you Defense 1107 for identification and
ask you some questions about that form.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* It is the page, your Honor, that is in table form.
Chart form I should say.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is the resolution good enough so that you can see
that, Mr. Matheson?

*MR. MATHESON:* I can see it. I can't read it, but I can see what it is
and I recognize what it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. That is one of the pages in the crime scene
identification checklist?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is this page typically filled out contemporaneously
with the evidence collection or with certain phases of the evidence
collection?

*MR. MATHESON:* Most of the information is; some of it is filled out
later on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, in terms of the numbers and measures, are those
done at the time that the measurements are actually done or shortly
thereafter?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I would expect it to. The item number, along with a
kind of brief description of what it is, such as red stain, coat,
whatever it happens to be, along with the location of where it was
found, the--you know, if it was on the street or on a bed, and then
measurements in the room or location, if that is appropriate.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, are there any strict rules in the Los Angeles
Police Department laboratory with respect to how this form is to be
filled out?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you have a function now, in reviewing these
forms, after they come back from the field?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the photo i.d. Number column or
i.d. Photo number, actually, excuse me, it just says, "I.d. Photo," what
is that to be used for, generally?

*MR. MATHESON:* For me I have always considered that a check box as to
whether or not a photograph was taken of a particular item out at the
scene. Sometimes it doesn't happen, either a photographer is not
available or whatever, and that has been the place where I see, yes, a
photo was taken, check it off.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you noticed any other practices?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe that there have been a couple people that use
that as an indication of maybe an alternate location if there was a
different number used or something. I am aware that people have
different interpretations of what that column means.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there any requirement that you have to check off
everything in that column?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not at this point, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, let's move the form over a little bit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about the "Buy" column? What is that to be used for?

*MR. MATHESON:* My understanding of that, is that is a spot where you
put your initials, the person that was involved in collecting the evidence.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What if you were working in a team, how is that to be used?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in the same way. If a--you have a couple of people
out there and for some reason it may be important at some point to know
who picked it up, it would be nice to have the initials of the person
who was involved in it, but it is not necessarily required.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if you are working in a team and both people saw a
particular piece of evidence collected, is there any standard practice
with respect to whether you say the person that physically picked it up,
his initials should go in there, or both people's or how is that handled?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. We don't have consistency on that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And what about the "Time" column? How do you use
the "Time" column personally?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally you use the "Time" column to bracket things. If
I am going to be--many times in the situation of picking up evidence,
you go through and you locate the evidence, have it photographed. You
put your numbers down and have it photographed with the numbers, do your
measurements. You kind of work in groups of items and say a particular
vicinity or locale at a scene. What I would do is record the time of the
first item in a group that I pick up, rough guess as to what time it is,
you know, look at my watch or something like that, and then I record the
time of the last item in that group and just run a line between them.
Sometimes I don't even record that information on this form. I have also
been known to write it on the packaging or the envelope and then come
back and fill that information in later.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if you had ten items, you would know--in that
particular group you would know when the first and the tenth were
collected with some specificity?

*MR. MATHESON:* Roughly, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then everything else would just be an arrow between
those two times?

*MR. MATHESON:* A line, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do other criminalists use that in the Los Angeles Police
Department?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are there other practices that are used?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there are some people that record the time for
each and every time that they pick up.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, from a serology standpoint, if you are
talking about a stain that was collected at, let's say, eleven o'clock
and then a second stain that was collected at 11:15, is there any
forensic significance to knowing that one was at a 11:00 and the other
one was at 11:15, generally?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection--

*THE COURT:* Objection.

*MR. BLASIER:* --to the phrase forensic "Significance." no foundation as
to what that means.

*THE COURT:* Vague.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, is there any significance from a serology
standpoint to the time difference?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, within the forensic community, based upon
your membership in these various organizations that you have discussed,
are you aware of any consistent practice with respect to when you are
working in a team investigating crime scenes whether you should signify
who physically collected a particular piece of evidence, whether you
should separate it out?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't remember having any discussions about that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is not a hot topic within the forensic community?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. What about the issue of the times? Is that a--

*THE COURT:* Would you locate that item.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about with respect to the portion of the list that
says "Time" or notating the time? Does that appear to be a controversial
or hot topic within the forensics community as to how you should fill
that kind of information out?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not specifically as to how it should be filled out.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is the goal that is--the criminalist is trying to
achieve in generating this paperwork? I mean, why do you even have to
bother with it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the main reason is to be able to locate where the
items came from. The most important piece of information that is on
there or the sequence of information that exists on that form is the
item number, the location where the item came from and a description of
the item itself. That way you can track that item through the system.
Many of the other items that are on there are nice to have, but the most
important thing are those three items; the number, the location and a
brief description of what it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So do those three items help you to place a particular
piece of evidence back in the crime scene? In other words, figure out
where it came from specifically?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. Well, it relates back to the photo that was taken
of it, so you can see a picture of how it was at the scene and gives you
a location of, you know, in general where it was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But if you have a photograph, is it absolutely necessary
to even have this kind of information? I mean, isn't it duplicative to a
certain extent?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, to a certain extent, but not completely.
Photographs are not perfect in their depth or their perception as to
where they are. It is still nice to have, you know, measurements to
generally locate where it is in relation to other items in relation to a
room or in relation to a victim, something like that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, is there any rule within the Los Angeles
Police Department as to whether this form can be filled out in pencil or
pen or any other writing instrument?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And with respect to erasures, is there any rule on that?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* If the form is a mess to the point that it is difficult
to read, can the criminalist rewrite it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Are we talking about the whole form?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Or portions of it?

*MR. MATHESON:* There is no rule that says they can't rewrite or clarify
certain areas of the document.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe we can just look at the next page.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* 17, 18 and 19.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is also 1107, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you seen this--taken a look at this document before?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* For instance, on this document, if you wanted to clean
it up to mays it in numerical order and because some--some of the items
appear to have been erased and written over, is there any rule that
would prohibit you from doing that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection to leading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. But we have gone over this.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, but--

*THE COURT:* Previously.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But it is something that the Defense made a lot about it.

*THE COURT:* But we have gone through it, we have discussed it. You can
get his perspective as a manager, but I think we have about covered it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Just one question on this and we spent about an hour on
it during the Defense case.

*THE COURT:* Well, counsel, one question. Proceed.

*MR. MATHESON:* Can you repeat the question?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* If I don't get in trouble.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* With respect to this type of form, if the criminalist
wanted to clean this up because there are erasures or just to put things
back in numerical order, would there be any rule against that?

*MR. MATHESON:* There would be no rule with them rewriting it from an
administrative point of view. I would like to have the original still
thrown in with the notes, but if it made things clearer to rewrite
things or reorder them, that would be fine.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But is there any written policy or oral policy on that
one way or another, that you are aware of?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, you said that part of your function is
to--currently as a supervisor is to review--thank you--crime scene
identification checklists when they come back. Did you do that in this
particular case? Did you review these?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as the--when I was a supervisor of the trace
and--or serology unit, I also at one point was given the trace unit. One
of my duties did involve the review of field notes as it related to
crime scenes. These were not reviewed prior to their photo identifying
and distribution.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was mainly a function of the hecticness at the time.
We were involved both in this case and along with many other ones that
go on constantly within the city. Mr. Fung does not work directly in our
facility, he is in one of our satellite locations, and he had the notes
with him for a period of time, and it was just a matter of circumstances
that by the time we got copies of the original ones for distribution,
they had not been reviewed at that point.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And who was supposed to actually review those while you
were the trace supervisor? Was it supposed to be you personally or did
you have someone under you?

*MR. MATHESON:* The normal process would be the notes would be left in a
box in our trace unit. They would be initially reviewed by our lead or
the Crime 3 of the field unit and then he would give them to me with a
recommendations of either filing them because they are complete or
suggested things to advise the criminalist on when it came to maybe
making them more complete prior to filing.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you have a Crime 3 of the trace unit at the time
that this case was--at the time that Mr. Fung and Miss Mazzola went out
and investigated the crime scenes?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Was he at that time reviewing them or were you
doing it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was--we were both doing it. He was--he was reviewing
the majority of them, but I was also involved in that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And what is the purpose of reviewing them at all?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it is kind of a two-fold purpose. One of them we
are looking to see if they are complete or as complete as possible, that
they have recorded things like field tests that were performed,
that--mainly that they were as complete as if there were areas that were
left undone, we would send them back to the criminalist, and if he had
that information available, we would ask them to make them complete. If
they didn't have it or they would have to just make guesses on the
information, we didn't want that. At that point it becomes a training
process in that we point out to them maybe you should put a little more
detail here, you should make sure your measurements are all included,
whatever it happened to be, so that the next time they went out in the
field their notes would be more complete than they are currently are.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So on occasion you will ask someone to actually add
something to the crime scene identification checklist, to add some
additional information?

*MR. MATHESON:* I will if I'm sure that they know that information, that
they are absolutely positive, that they are not just putting something
in there to fill it in.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that review process serves as a training function?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, on the crime scene identification checklist in this
case, there has been some testimony that Andrea Mazzola was placed on as
the officer in charge on the Bundy list, her name.

*MR. MATHESON:* I am aware of that, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there any significance to that?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why is that done typically? What does that signify?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the OIC or officer in charge, just normally by
habit it is the person who is on call. Officially that weekend Miss
Mazzola was the criminalist on call. When Detective Headquarters
Division, which is the section of our department that dispatches us, has
a homicide scene where a criminalist is requested, they go to a sheet
that we supply them on every Monday and Friday, and refer to the name of
the criminalist that is available, and the name appearing on that sheet
was ms. Mazzola. She then, because of the fact that she was a Crime 1,
would call the Crime 3 that was responding to her, the supervisor, in
this case, Mr. Fung. So it merely was an indication of the fact that it
was her weekend on call and her name was placed on top.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that is how it is typically done? Is that what you
are testifying to?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to collecting evidence again, do you
have a practice that when you are talking about biological evidence, of
collecting representative samples?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What does that mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* To me a representative sample is--well, probably the
best way to do it is by an example. If you have a blood trail that leads
away from a scene or into a scene, whatever, if you have a blood trail
that consists of thirty or forty drops that goes on for a block or two,
it would be unnecessary and inappropriate to pick up every single drop
of blood along that trail, because you can tell by looking at it that it
is a continuous trail being dropped by the same person. What we would
like to see, rather than picking up all forty of them and spending the
time doing that, is to pick up what we call a representative sample of
that trail, a blood sample from the beginning, maybe one or two in the
middle, depending on how long it is, or more, and one from the end. I
would also expect somebody that is doing a trail like that to collect
any sample that appeared out of place or not consistent with the trail.
That is my definition of what a representative sample from a crime scene is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what about in a situation as in a car like the
Bronco in this case? Do you have to collect every last stain in there or
do you take a sample of them? How do you do it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it depends on the quantity of blood that is
present. If there are a couple of stains that are grouped together, then
I would say, no, you probably are not going to collect every single one
of them. I would expect that in doing a car search you would pick up
samples from different areas within the vehicle that represent the
possibility of different blood samples coming from different individuals.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is the purpose of taking representative samples
in situations like the ones you have talked about, as opposed to just
collecting every last stain that is there?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we deal with reality when it comes to resources.
We have only a certain number of people that are available to collect
evidence and a certain number of people to analyze evidence and at some
point you have to be practical, you have to decide that you are spending
too much time picking up every one of these 20 samples where that time
could be better spent evaluating other parts of the scene, getting the
samples packaged and ready to go. And then ultimately, when it comes to
the serology unit, they are not going to analyze all of those items as a
rule anyway, they are going to have relied on the person at the scene to
pick up the best samples, the ones that are most representative of the
crime and the people that were involved and it is the best utilization
of the resources so that we can get as much provided for the people of
Los Angeles as we can with the resources that we have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you Judge how well a criminalist has done in terms
of processing or investigating a crime scene with biological evidence by
figuring out the quantity of stains that he or she collected?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. We have had some people that collect very few but
always seem to find the most probative sample, and we have had people in
the past that collect many, many samples, but don't always give us the
best information.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say most probative, you mean what?

*MR. MATHESON:* Ones that answer the questions, ones that if there is
multiple people bleeding at a scene, that we are getting blood from
multiple people and not just from one. Whatever is necessary to get the
most appropriate or the best information out of the evidence that is
there left at the scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, is this idea of using selectivity in collecting
evidence one that is discussed in some forensic science literature?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am aware of it being discussed elsewhere.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And specifically, did you look at the discussion of this
idea in Henry Lee's book on crime scene identification, the one that I
always refer to as Henry Lee child's edition?

*MR. MATHESON:* I have seen that information in his book, yes, that you
need to be selective in the samples that you collect.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And I would like to just show you one portion of this
book and see whether you have taken a look at it. It just has big print.
That is the big print book. You recognize it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*THE COURT:* Yes, "Child's" referring to the size of the print.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Referring to the size of the print, big print. It was my
idea of a joke, but anyway.

*THE COURT:* You are obviously not at the age where you need bifocals.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, I am getting there.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* May I approach the witness?

*THE COURT:* You may.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And directing your attention to page 79, the first full
paragraph, maybe you could just--have you considered that paragraph?
Have you read that before?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have read it before.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe you could just read what Dr. Lee says about
collecting evidence where it starts "Recognition" and--well, maybe just
starting there through the rest of the paragraph.

*MR. MATHESON:* "Recognition of evidence involves selectivity and a
general understanding of logic of crime scene. If all objects at the
scene are collected and submitted to a forensic laboratory for further
analysis, the forensic facility will be overwhelmed. If critical
evidence is omitted or improperly preserved, the use of sophisticated
equipment cannot salvage the investigation, hence correct crime scene
search and collection methods are of paramount importance."

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So basically it is a balancing act between not wanting
to overwhelm the laboratory with too much and not wanting to miss the
relevant evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the Bronco--well, I will get into
that later. Have you heard some testimony to the effect that in this
particular case that there were five stains at Bundy location, all of
which were collected, whereas there were three stains at the Rockingham
location, a, b and c, that were not collected?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there, from a forensic science standpoint, in
terms of crime scene identification, based upon your understanding of
the evidence in this case, any reason for that?

*MR. MATHESON:* There is a--my understanding of it, yes, there is an
explanation for that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in the case of the items that were collected from
Bundy, that was the crime scene. We had two victims there and there were
blood droplets that appeared to be inconsistent with having come from
either of the victims, so they would indicate somebody else had been
present at that location. At that point it made sense to collect as much
as possible of that, keeping in mind what I said before, if it had been
extremely long I would have expected them not to collect all of them but
to collect a good representative sample of what we have there as far as
the blood goes. As far as the other location at Rockingham, that was not
a crime scene, it was another location that may or may not have been
involved, and they used a little bit more selectivity there, collecting
a stain at the beginning, at the end, and leaving some of the ones in
between in place.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your understanding is that there was no body or evidence
that a crime actually occurred at that location?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is it your understanding that there was no body or
evidence that a crime was actually committed at that particular location?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It is okay. I will withdraw the question.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you also hear some evidence to the effect of
a--I'm not sure if it was triangular, but a little corner piece of paper
that was in the area of the entrance to the caged-off area not having
been collected?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is your view on that?

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as I am concerned--

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, I'm going to object to that question as being vague.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Should that have been collected?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why?

*MR. MATHESON:* The area that we are talking about, as far as this crime
scene goes, is fairly limited in size and not like--again, using an
example, if the crime had occurred in an alley where there was a lot of
debris, a lot of trash around, then some selectivity should have been
done. You are not going to collect every bit of paper, every bit of
trash that is in an alley. This particular area, though, was smaller, I
assume had some maintenance done on it with some regularity, possibly
cleaning up. A piece of paper in that location kind of stands out as
being potentially involved somehow, and had the criminalist been aware
of it existence, should have collected it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And could the non--could the failure to collect
that item have in any way affected any of the other biological evidence,
some of which you tested in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, not in any way.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe we can just get a picture. I'm sorry. While they
are looking for that, let me go on to another topic and then we will
come back to it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does the Los Angeles Police Department use plastic
baggies or plastic bags for the purposes of putting the wet swatches
until they have had an opportunity to dry them?

*MR. MATHESON:* The plastic baggies are used to transport the evidence,
yes, until they can be taken back to the laboratory, opened up and
allowed to dry.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how long has that procedure been used?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that is the one that I learned pushing 17 years
ago, so it has been in use at least that long.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And during the 13 or so years that you were involved in
the serology, was that--was that right, was it approximately 13?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, approximately 13 years.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What affect, if any, did you observe on that collection
technique on the evidence that you were actually testing?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, considering it was the technique that was used and
it was the standard technique in our laboratory, and we would with
regularity analyze evidence items that would give us good typeable or
identifiable results, I would have to say that the use of that technique
was appropriate and effective for bringing samples into the laboratory
for analysis.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And during the 13 or so years that you were in serology,
did you notice any particular problems in terms of evidence being
degraded to the point where you couldn't get results?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there is not an ongoing problem at all with
degradation that I can relate back to the bags. Occasionally we would
have a piece of evidence come through that had been allowed to stay in
the bag, that is very inappropriate, and that would show us problems
with that evidence.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Under what circumstances would that happen?

*MR. MATHESON:* If the person forgets to take it out, if they were not
properly trained. That would happen sometimes with the detectives. It is
just is a situation that would occur, though very rarely.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sometimes when the detectives were collecting some of
the stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* Occasionally, but rarely.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in those instances where it was not taken out of the
bag to dry for an extended period--well, when you say "Extended" what do
you mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* I mean as far as ultimate packaging, it then gets put on
a shelf and is left anywhere from many days to months.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You mean you would have situations like this
occasionally with detectives?

*MR. MATHESON:* Where we would see a blood sample still left in a
plastic bag?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* Occasionally but rarely.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what happened on those samples?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally they were degraded. You won't get false
results; you would just get no results.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What do you mean you wouldn't get false results?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, except for a very specific situation, degradation
of a sample doesn't change the type to another type; it just makes it so
you don't get no information at all.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when you say "No information," when you do your tests
what do you come up with?

*MR. MATHESON:* No result. There is no typeable result that is obtained.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* So in that particular instance, if the perpetrator's
blood has in fact been lifted from a crime scene or a crime location and
the results have been degraded to the point where you don't get any
information, would that benefit the perpetrator?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* *MR. GOLDBERG:* Would that cause the perpetrator to be
falsely included as a possible donor of the stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it would not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Could it cause the perpetrator to be falsely excluded?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there is no information there at all; it just
wouldn't provide any forensic information.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, let me just go back to this photograph. I
would like to mark this photograph as People's 205 for identification of
what appears to be the little piece of paper. I think it is depicted in
some other photographs.

/(Peo's 205 for id = photograph)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* May I approach the witness?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, I would like to show you 205. Is this your
understanding of the piece of paper that we just questioned you about?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Can we see that?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And is this the piece of paper you said that
would you have collected if you had been out at the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* If I was aware, yes, that is one of the items.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assuming it hadn't been covered over by a blanket or
some other item and you had seen it?

*MR. MATHESON:* If I had seen it, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, is this the kind of thing where there is a hard and
fast rule that you should collect it or is this the kind of thing about
which reasonable forensic scientists could differ? I mean, how would you
characterize it?

*MR. MATHESON:* When it comes to what to collect, there are very few
hard and fast rules. That is what is acquired with experience, the
mental picture of what you collect and what you don't collect. So far as
a hard and fast rule whether or not somebody should collect it or--or
told to collect it by a manual, no, that doesn't exist.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And in your estimation, Mr. Matheson, if this
particular piece of paper were located in an area where there was a
fairly extensive pooling of the victim's blood, would this be the kind
of evidence that you would want to test for biological evidence showing
the victim's blood type?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't believe I would recommend this particular item
to be tested for the biological evidence on it, particularly in light of
other evidence that was collected.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, going back to the issue of collecting--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why would you not recommend that that be
collected--tested for biological evidence?

*THE COURT:* Do you want to rephrase that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why would you recommend that that piece of biological
evidence or the biological evidence on it not be tested further for
genetic markers?

*MR. MATHESON:* Like I just mentioned, we have to look at the whole
scene and we do have other items of biological evidence that provide
information as to what possibly occurred. This particular one being
found in close proximity to the victim, being heavily blood-stained, at
some point we do have to make some assumptions and the assumption would
be that the blood that is present on that is coming from the victim
herself. At some point, if it really seemed necessary, or if there was a
lot of other evidence in the case, we may want to go after and analyze
some of the individual drops, but it would be a low priority when it
comes to that.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* I just wanted to show one of the overall photographs
of the crime scene that has already been marked.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, I wanted to show him People's--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* It is 43-d, and I guess this is--it is a bloody
photograph, but--so the Court might want to cut the feed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, showing you what has been previously marked as
People's 43-d, in this area of the pooling of the blood, how much, if
any, of that blood on the sidewalk--it is not a sidewalk--in this
walkway should be tested?

*MR. MATHESON:* On that particular location very little of that
blood--it is--common sense does come into play when you are picking and
choosing which items to analyze or which items to collect, and common
sense would tell you that by far, if not all of the blood that is
visible in that picture is coming from the victim herself. I would want
at least one sample or item of that blood to be collected as a standard
of the victim, but--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if the evidence showed that the piece of paper were
found in what would be the upper right-hand portion of the photograph,
would that location be consistent with the answer that you previously
gave about why you would not want to test that necessarily for
biological evidence?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is there anything about the photograph and the placement
of the object that would relate to your answer previously given as to
testing the piece of paper for biological evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, given the location of that piece of paper and the
way it is heavily stained, I wouldn't say that we would never test it,
but it would be a very low priority.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, getting back to the issue of collecting stains,
have you looked at the Los Angeles Police Department manual,
specifically section 525.2, as to booking of biological evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* I--yes, I have. I have looked at a number of manual
references. I would like to make sure that the one you are talking about
is the one I'm thinking of.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm just going to show this to refresh the witness'
recollection.

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, showing you a section of the Los Angeles Police
Department manual, do you recognize that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And specifically 525.2 talks about preserving wet stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does that state in the second sentence that "Plastic
containers or plastic wrap shall not be used as a packaging material"?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is your understanding of that requirement?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the--the operative term there is "Packaging." We
teach an inconsistency with the manual at that paint and say that
biological evidence should never be stored or packaged for permanent
storage in plastic.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when you say "Packaging," final packaging, what
are you talking about?

*MR. MATHESON:* When the items are submitted to our property division
for storage until such time they are analyzed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I will get into that a little bit more later. So
in terms of the usage of plastic bags for transporting a stain from the
scene to the laboratory when it is dried, within the forensic science
community and among serologists, is that one acceptable technique for
collecting a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, does the Los Angeles Police Department--let me just
ask you another question about the manual first. Is this manual, the
manual provisions dealing with the booking of evidence, are they up to date?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, they are not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In what manner are they not up to date?

*MR. MATHESON:* A perfect example is, is we currently have within part
of SID a property room that is called the evidence control unit and we
have a courier system which are light-duty officers that travel
throughout the city at night collecting evidence from the different
stations and bringing them down to our evidence control unit for final
storage. Both of these functions have been in existence for at least,
well, I believe two to three years, one of them longer than that, and
there is no reference to either one of them that I am aware of in the
manual.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In other words, there is no reference to this new
evidence control unit that you have at SID in the manual?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is my understanding, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And if a piece evidence is collected from a crime
scene, biological evidence, in a manner that is forensically accepted,
but the manual provisions have not been updated in such a way so as to
authorize that particular collection, would it affect the outcome of the
test?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, first off, I would rather they followed the proper
procedure rather than following the manual.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay.

*MR. MATHESON:* If that is the way that we are doing something, then it
is better to use a procedure that is going to give you the best results
than a reference in the manual that may be outdated.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the crime scene truck, is there a
refrigerator in the crime scene truck?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what kind of materials are stored in the refrigerator?

*MR. MATHESON:* Mainly it is chemicals, particularly chemicals that we
use for field spot tests.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would there be any problems in storing biological
evidence in the refrigerator?

*MR. MATHESON:* Any problem with it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* No. There isn't a lot of space, but there wouldn't be a
problem with it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about spillage? Is there any issue concerning
spillage of these chemicals on to the biological evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, ultimately that could be a problem, but we don't
have a lot of spillage in them, but we do carry chemicals in there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, is there any rule that you are supposed to use the
refrigerator when you are collecting a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there is none.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about with respect to the whole blood? When whole
blood is collected and a criminalist comes into possession of it, does
that whole blood that is taken as a reference sample have some
preservative in it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I would just like to show you what has been previously
marked as Defense exhibit 11--1111--excuse me, 1112, and 1124 for
identification, two purple-topped tubes. Do you recognize those items?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What are they?

*MR. MATHESON:* They are two sample of two different brands of blood
collection tubes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is the significance of the purple tops?

*MR. MATHESON:* The color of the top of any tube indicates the
preservative or anticoagulant that is present inside of the tube.
Purple, that happens to pertain to something that goes by the initials
of EDTA.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you use purple-topped tubes in the laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do they come from the manufacturer with the EDTA in
them?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What does it do?

*MR. MATHESON:* It--I'm not sure if it is just an anticoagulant or if it
is an anticoagulant preservative, but it helps the blood to stay in such
a position that it is available or typing.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is it helpful when you have EDTA to refrigerate that
reference sample immediately?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not immediately.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How long can you keep the purple-topped tube out or
should you keep it out before you refrigerate it?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't know if I know of any particular, you know,
specific time frame. I would like--personally I would like it to get
into a refrigerator as soon as it is possible. However, I do know that
we get legitimate results if it is not placed to a refrigerator as soon
as possible, so I can't give a specific time frame on that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What happens if you get a reference sample from a living
victim or a living Defendant--the Defendant has to be living--and the
activity from the tube is lost genetic activity?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well in that situation that creates a little bit more
paperwork, I'm sure, but the source of that blood is still available. We
can get additional tubes.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, would this be a good spot?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe could I just ask one more question to tie this
up, if I could?

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is the effect therefore if the genetic activity
is lost from one of these tubes?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if it is lost, then the information from that
particular tube is no longer available to us; however, if we can get an
additional sample from that individual, the results would be exactly the
same as from the first tube.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what if you couldn't get an additional sample from
the individual? Would you get a false inclusive as a result of the blood
vial having degraded?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. You wouldn't get a result. There would be nothing to
compare the information from your evidence items to compare it to.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Similar to the case of a dried stain taken from a crime
scene?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, that is similar to the explanation that you
previously gave when we were discussing the stain taken from a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct, in that if you lose the information,
there isn't anything there to compare it to. You do not make then
erroneous comparisons; inclusions or exclusions.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in this particular case were you able to test and
get results from the reference sample that came from the Defendant?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you test the reference sample in this case, item no. 17?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I didn't hear grounds.

*THE COURT:* Foundation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I will take it up--maybe we could take it up
during the--

*THE COURT:* All right. The person whose cellular telephone went off is
ordered to immediately surrender that telephone.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* In this section of the courtroom.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* If I don't get a response from anybody, everybody is
going to be searched in and out of the courtroom for the presence of
cellular telephones and pagers. We have had number problems with this.
We have disrupted these proceedings six times already.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* I don't want to have to order the bailiffs to search each
individual person, so the person with the cellular phone--

*AN UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN:* There was a couple ladies back here and they left.

*THE COURT:* Their purses were searched when they left.

*AN UNIDENTIFIED WOMAN:* Oh.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. The bailiffs are ordered to search each
individual entering the courtroom. No pagers, cellular telephones, any
noise devices may not be allowed in the courtroom from this point hence.
All right. We will be in recess, one o'clock.

/(At 12:01 P.M. the noon recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)/

//*Los Angeles, California; Monday, May 1, 1995 1:00 P.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Back on the record in the Simpson matter. All the parties
are again present. Mr. Blasier, when we recessed, you indicated that
there was something about--we had one other issue, one of the boards
that you had an objection to.

*MR. BLASIER:* Actually now there are two issues, Judge. They just
brought another board in.

*THE COURT:* All right. Well, let's take a look at the first board.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which board?

*MR. BLASIER:* The fingernail board.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is it okay if we arrange this in this manner so it's--

*THE COURT:* Yes. I have before me a board that's entitled, "Nail
clippings, scrapings, Nicole Brown." and my recollection, Mr. Blasier,
you made an objection to the photograph that appears on the bottom?

*MR. BLASIER:* That's correct. On the bottom and middle.

*THE COURT:* What's the nature of the objection?

*MR. BLASIER:* It's overly gruesome, doesn't add anything to the topic
of the fingernails. It adds nothing. It tends to inflame the jury
resulting in an emotional reaction rather than non-emotional. I object
to it on those grounds. It's already in evidence I think in some other
form. I would object to having it on the chart as well.

*THE COURT:* What's the other evidence, markings of this particular
photograph? Mr. Fairtlough, do you know that?

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Yes, your Honor. I believe it is People's exhibit no.
42. Let me just check and verify that. Actually, your Honor--I am sorry.
It is not yet in evidence. There are very similar photographs to it that
are People's exhibit no. 42, which bear the frame counter number 0039.
This bears the frame counter 0040. Does the Court wish to see the two
photos?

*THE COURT:* No. I recognize the scene that's depicted there. All right.
Mr. Goldberg, why do we need this?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What?

*THE COURT:* Why do we need this?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* The reason is that this goes back to the EAP issues. The
Court recalls the Defense made a big deal in the opening statement about
someone else's blood being found under Nicole Brown's fingernails, and
we're going to address that in some great detail. The Court knows that
one of the things we want to do in order to do that is to put on
evidence as to the testing of item no. 42, which is the blood underneath
Nicole Simpson, Nicole Brown. And what I want to be able to show here is
why it was reasonable from a forensic science standpoint to make an
inference about the results under the fingernails from the results on
the pool of blood. I want to show that they are in contact, that she is
lying in that area and that the blood that Mr. Matheson tested, item no.
42, is subject to the same environmental conditions and was deposited on
the crime scene at the same time presumably as the blood underneath the
fingernails.

*THE COURT:* So you're saying the relevance is the location and position
of the hands from whence the nail scrapings come?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah, in contact with the pool of blood and then the
relevance of the hands themselves, the close-ups of the hands, which I
believe may also be in evidence according to Mr. Blasier. Is that they
do the same thing. They're showing that this is all really part of one
contiguous and continuous blood source, and therefore, we can take test
results from a variety of locations in that source of blood under the
fingernails and interrelate them trying to figure out what's happening
to the items underneath the fingernails.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, do you have any response to that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Just that the jury has seen these pictures over and over
and over again. You can't even see item 42 in any of these pictures. I
think it's irrelevant and cumulative and prejudicial.

*THE COURT:* All right. The Court finds that in this particular context,
the location and position of the hands relative to the crime scene
itself, the pool of blood and the location of Nicole Brown Simpson as
she was found, that there is significant probative value with regards to
the nail clippings and scrapings and that the jury has already seen a
similar picture to this in a relevant context. I don't think it will
have the inflammatory effect that counsel argues. So the objection will
be overruled. All right. What's the second board?

*MR. BLASIER:* There's a new chart that just was brought down at 1:00
o'clock I believe, and it concerns testing by the Defense. And this was
an issue that we talked about a number of times before. We're waiting
for a ruling from the Court on issue related to these items on this
board I believe. And we have--we weren't aware that they were going to
have a board like this. We strenuously object to the Prosecution going
into anything concerning what we have done during the course of our
confidential privileged investigations. We have stated many times that
we are not challenging chain of custody for any of these items during
the period of time when we had possession of them. There is virtually no
probative value. Clearly there's a prejudicial effect to what they want
to do. We strenuously object to any testimony concerning what happened
to items when they were in our possession or what didn't happen to items.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, with the Court's permission, maybe Mr.
Harmon could address this because he's going to use this with one of his
witnesses and mine in order to establish the authentication for the exhibit.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let me ask you though, Mr. Goldberg, before you
go one question. When do you anticipate using this?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'd say I probably have about an hour and a half worth
of material to cover to two hours is my best guesstimate prior to this
board.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, this--remember, we proposed the stipulation
that could accomplish what this board accomplishes, and it kind of
disappeared from everybody's agenda. This board is our attempt to
utilize the provisions that you made in your order on February 8th. They
would like everybody in the world and this jury to think they never
tested any evidence in this case, and that's simply not the case. They
took part of our samples in October. They did not have writing on them.
That was pursuant to the Court's order. Mr. Matheson can lay the
foundation for that being turned over. When they came back, they had all
these names and dates all over them, and that's the subject of what
we're going to discuss Wednesday afternoon, but it's also contained in
the stipulations. And so absent them stipulating to a very sanitary, you
took our evidence, you brought it back, you consumed part of it in the
testing, which is what you afforded us the opportunity to do, we have to
prove it, and this is one way that we begin proving it, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* The critical phrase there is "Consumed in testing." we've
stated from the beginning we have no objection to the jury being told
that the reason there is a half of three swatches missing is because it
was provided to the Defense. The jury needs to know nothing beyond that.
Mr. Harmon wants to get into what we may have done in a confidential
privileged basis where he wasn't there. He doesn't have the foundation
to go into that. He wants to raise some sort of specter that because
we've tested evidence, that we got results we didn't like, which is not--

*THE COURT:* So your objection is characterizing it as having been used
in testing rather than just having been given to you for whatever
purpose you deem appropriate?

*MR. BLASIER:* Correct.

*THE COURT:* So if the Court's instruction to the jury is that on such
and such a date, this item, for example, item 47, the possession of
which was given to the Defense, that a certain portion of that was
given--was removed and given to the Defense and then the remainder
returned to the Prosecution on a subsequent date, you have no objection
to that--

*MR. BLASIER:* No problem with that at all.

*THE COURT:* All right. Then you would have I take it then no objection
if that is the limitation on the testimony here with regards to these
packaged items?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, I would object to the introduction of these large
photographs and the packaged items with all sorts of signatures on them
that presumably Mr. Harmon is going to feel the need to explain to the
jury where they came from. Nothing is added by this chart that isn't
conveyed to the jury by what you just said, what the Court just said.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, we've been pussyfooting around with this for months
now, Judge, and every time--you know, we tried to make it in a direct
very sterile way, and then they dodged it, then they filed this
prosecutorial misconduct when any fool can read what happened to these
things. And now when we're about to prove things, which is what the jury
trial is about, now they want you to just tell them something. Well I'd
rather that--we're not asking for a stipulation. We're not asking for an
instruction. We're asking to explain the factual history of what
happened to these samples. And whatever legal instruction you give at a
later point I'm sure will comport with the process--or the due process
requirements, that we can't comment on the Defendant not testifying or
them not presenting any evidence. But this is the factual history, the
chain of custody of these things. And we've tried in many ways to
resolve this. And now when it comes time through the logical witness to
begin the proof process, now they want you to just tell them something
that's just not quite true, consistent with the factual history of these
stains. I think we should just prove it, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank, you counsel. I'll contemplate that. Mr.
Goldberg, let me know when you're about to launch into that. We'll take
a break. And I need to look at two cases before I rule on this.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's--

*MR. BLASIER:* One other quick issue, your Honor. Mr. Goldberg showed us
some papers, some handwritten lab notes this morning that we have never
seen before. He indicated that he thought they had been turned over. Mr.
Scheck and Mr. Neufeld and I have never seen them. We don't yet have
copies of them. I would ask that we be provided with copies and that he
not elicit any testimony concerning these documents until we've had a
chance to explore them and find out why we didn't get them in a timely
fashion.

*THE COURT:* What are these things, Mr. Goldberg?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, these are not lab notes. This is an item
that was generated on 6-29-94 which are the handwritten copies of the
inventory that was done that was the subject of the Griffen hearing and
it was subsequently generated in a typewritten form. Counsel says that
he does not have it in a handwritten form, but I believe that the
handwritten copy of this was introduced at the Griffen hearing itself as
an exhibit, as exhibit k to that hearing. But he is correct, it does not
have l numbers or d numbers. But if they went through the Griffen
hearing materials, they'd find that this is, as I said, exhibit k.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, are you going to get to any
information on that at this point before our next recess?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I could. And as I said, it's identical to--well, I'll
probably get to it sometime around when we address the photographs that
are the subject of the Court's other pending--

*THE COURT:* All right. Is there an item k from the August hearing? Will
you pull that out, Mrs. Robertson?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But at any rate, it should be identical to the
typewritten one that was generated from it.

*THE COURT:* Was that during Mr. Matheson's testimony?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No. I believe that was during Miss Kestler's testimony.

*THE COURT:* How many pages are these handwritten notes, Mr. Goldberg?
Is this the 11 pages?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's correct, your Honor. Apparently it was marked by
Mr. Scheck.

*THE COURT:* All right. Item k in the transcript, in the list of
exhibits at page 6, transcript of August the 23rd indicates item k are
handwritten notes, 11 pages dated June 29, 1994. And the testimony was
that these were then converted into the computerized, computer-generated
printout and they were, as you indicate, marked by Mr. Scheck for the
purposes of that hearing. Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, I wasn't aware. I knew they're not in the lab work.
These are handwritten notes, that we were under the impression we were
given all of the handwritten notes prepared by people at SID. I don't
believe those are in any of the discovery documents. Whether they were
proceeded at the time of that hearing or whether Mr. Scheck got a copy,
I'm just not sure. But I know there is a typed document that presumably
mirrors that.

*THE COURT:* Well, it appears that Mr. Scheck had them for the use of
the Griffen hearing. So the argument that you haven't seen these
before--I'll allow--I'll have the staff make you a photocopy of what Mr.
Goldberg has. Do you have any additional copies, Mr. Goldberg? Mr.
Goldberg, do you have any additional copies?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Would you give that to Mr. Burn for me, please,
and, Mr. Burn, would you make some photocopies of that? All right. Let
me know before you get to that particular document and we'll get a copy
for counsel. All right. Let's proceed.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, also, we had a number of foundational
objections right before lunch that we need to resolve.

*THE COURT:* That's correct. All right. What's the nature of your
objection, your foundational objection?

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, Mr. Neufeld has prepared the brief on this,
ask that he argue that if possible.

*THE COURT:* Well, you're the one presenting the witness, counsel.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well--well, we strenuously object to have Mr. Matheson
testify about the results of any testing conducted on Mr. Simpson's
reference sample without a proper foundation being established, and that
foundation being testimony by the nurse who drew it, the manner in which
it was drawn, how it was preserved, how it was logged in, how it was
packaged and how it got to the point where he performed testing on it.
The foundational question, as the Court is aware, we're raising serious
questions about foundation, chain of custody, packaging, collection--

*THE COURT:* Do you have any argument that's not included in Mr.
Neufeld's written argument?

*MR. BLASIER:* No.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, your Honor, on page 19367 of the transcript, it's
volume 110, Detective Vannatter's testimony, he did testify to seeing
the item drawn--to the Defendant being in the jail dispensary and blood
sample having been drawn and that he then took that blood sample and
dropped it off to Mr. Fung at the Rockingham location. Actually the
chain of custody on the blood sample has been more thoroughly explored
in this case prior to Mr. Matheson's testimony than any other exhibit
that I can recollect in any of the previous trials that I've been
involved in. I believe we've gone into this for hours and hours and
hours and we have testimony leading from the time that it came out of
the Defendant's arm to the time that it was packaged up in the gray
analyzed evidence envelope and booked. That's the first argument. So
just simply factually, the Defense is wrong. The second argument is, on
order of proof, the Court has complete discretion with respect to the
order of proof and how witnesses are going to be called. If we were to
require a chain of custody to be done on every item prior to the witness
testifying to it, then we would not be able to get into evidence of the
fingernail scrapings, because we haven't heard from the Coroner yet, or
the clothes that came from the Coroner on which some testing was done,
which we clearly can do, and we would not be able to present evidence on
the victim's reference vials which came from the Coroner. A lot of these
things have to be tied up later, and we also have a situation here where
items of evidence were exchanged back and forth between cellmark and the
Department of Justice. So how would you do that? I mean, one of those
organizations has to testify first. So if cellmark testifies first,
they're going to be testifying to items, some of which--

*THE COURT:* Let's look at the item that we're talking about here today.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, the point is this, your Honor; is that there are
dozens of items, the chain of custody of which is going to be proved
through other witnesses, whether they're Coroner's witnesses, whether
they're DOJ witnesses, whether they're cellmark witnesses or whether
they're other SID witnesses. We also have--

*THE COURT:* I'm not interested in that issue or that argument. I'm just
interested in this blood vial, this particular situation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that's what I'm trying to address, is order of
proof, which is contained in penal code section 320, which says that,
"Except as otherwise provided by law, the Court in its discretion shall
regulate the order of proof." and we just know that the case law is
replete with instances where courts have virtually absolute discretion
in doing this. This case has to be presented or should be presented in
some kind of orderly way. And we could call a lot of witnesses twice,
you know, once for chain of custody and then for their respective tests.
It doesn't make any sense to do it that way. So certain aspects of the
chain of custody will have to wait until later to be proved. So that's
the second argument. And the third argument is a business records
argument. We have a case of People versus Aguilar which I cited
in--which was cited in the points and authorities that we prepared and
stands for the proposition that you can prove a chain of custody of
narcotics evidence of a police officer that was deceased by his
notations on the evidence package. As the Court is familiar, evidence
packages typically contain a chain of custody statement where the police
officer fills out what he did with the chain of custody of the item, and
that was held to come in under--as both an official and business record.
In this particular case, Mr. Peratis filled out that same type of chain
of custody statement which is in the pictures, the photographs of the
analyzed evidence envelope.

*THE COURT:* Has Mr. Peratis been--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Been what?

*THE COURT:* Been withdrawn--has Mr. Peratis been withdrawn from the
People's witness list?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No.

*THE COURT:* And he will be testifying.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* He may be testifying at some point.

*THE COURT:* Isn't that something I need to know now?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, the issue is one of chain of custody and the issue
is one of foundation. And the Court asked is that something the Court
needs to know now. We believe that that issue--

*THE COURT:* No. Your argument is order of proof. You're telling me that
you don't need to call this guy right now.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Right. And if the Court concludes we do need to call him
at some point, we absolutely will obviously. We're going to do whatever
needs to be done in order to establish the chain of custody of these items.

*THE COURT:* No. Implied in your order of proof argument is that that
person will be coming sometime during the case in chief.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Or maybe coming at a later time if the Court so orders
or if the Court so finds.

*THE COURT:* Later than the case in chief.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, no. Later in the case in chief.

*THE COURT:* Okay. All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But the first argument, as I said, your Honor, is that
we don't need to call him at all legally because we've established it
through an eyewitness, Detective Vannatter. And the third argument is
that we don't need to do it because we have the business records and we
have a case that's on point that says that chain of custody statement on
the envelope does qualify as an official record.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, any brief response?

*MR. BLASIER:* This is not a chain of custody argument. This is a
foundational argument. And we would ask the Court to use its discretion
which we accept the Court has to say this is important, this person
should be on first to establish the foundation before Mr. Matheson
testifies about test results. Mr. Peratis was on their witness list. He
was going to be called before Mr. Matheson until the People changed
their mind a week or so ago. We would ask that that be done first and
that the Court not allow the Prosecution to suspend this witness'
testimony or Mr. Peratis' testimony for some indefinite time in the future.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. I agree that I believe also
that the Court has not unbridled, but certainly wide discretion as far
as the order of proof is concerned. I will allow Mr. Matheson to testify
to these matters subject to a motion to strike if Mr. Peratis is not
called as a witness. All right. Let's proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Just for the record, is the Court rejecting the People's
argument about Detective Vannatter being an eyewitness to the drawing
and transmittal of the blood?

*THE COURT:* I'm saying--no, I'm not rejecting that as testimony, but
there are other things that perhaps are missing in the foundation;
medically approved method, use of a particular vial. Who knows. I
haven't examined Detective Vannatter's testimony from months ago.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah. I just wanted to make sure the Court wasn't ruling
on that issue at this point.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jury, please.

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Be seated.
All right. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* All right. The record should reflect that Mr. Gregory
Matheson is again on the witness stand undergoing direct examination by
Mr. Goldberg.

/Gregory Matheson, the witness on the stand at the time of the lunch
recess, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* Good afternoon, Mr. Matheson.

*MR. MATHESON:* Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* You are reminded, sir, you are still under oath. And, Mr.
Goldberg, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you, your Honor.

*_DIRECT EXAMINATION (RESUMED) BY MR. GOLDBERG_*

*__MR. GOLDBERG:* You were talking about EDTA vials and not
refrigerating them. Can you give a simple explanation as to what happens
if a vial were not refrigerated for a lengthy period of time and the
material degraded? What happens?

*THE COURT:* Isn't that question kind of vague, lengthy period of time?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, let's say it's not refrigerated for a long enough
period of time so that the material degrades, however long that is. What
happens?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as far as an analogy or an explanation, it's
similar to the degradation of any form of biological evidence or sample.
I like to use as an example, when it comes to, you know, field evidence
which could then I suppose be carried through over to a blood vial that
was improperly stored, it's just like having a piece of meat or any
other sort of biological entity. If you leave it sitting out on your
counter, eventually it's going to rot to the point where it's going to
be unusable or go bad. In the case of biological evidence or blood in a
blood vial, eventually under improper storage conditions, the components
within it are going to rot and break down and become unusable for
forensic purposes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And when you say unusable, what do you mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* That when we use those items in our testing, we will get
no results.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But does the degradation that takes place or can take
place in a blood vial, is it going to change the nature of the blood
that it appears to be someone else's?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as a rule, it won't change. It will just go to the
point where you can not get any sort of result. There is one exception
to that, but as a rule, it will not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And when you say one exception--I don't want to go
into this in detail right now--but are you talking about one particular
genetic marker?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now--excuse me. When you ship biological material
out to an outside laboratory, is it shipped in a frozen condition?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. Not at this time. We place them into like a federal
express or something like that overnight pack and ship it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So there probably--there may be as much as a 24-hour
period of time that it is not frozen as it's being transmitted?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is the effect of that?

*MR. MATHESON:* It doesn't appear to have any. We originally when we
started submitting evidence for DNA analysis used to package them in
cold packs and created very large containers, and we got away from that
and have not noticed any change in the results or, you know, the
quantity of positive typing results that we've obtained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And were you in fact able to perform
conventional testing to determine the genetic markers on the reference
sample, item 17, in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, going back--to continue on with our evidence
collection questions, when evidence is being collected at a crime scene,
do you use clean instruments or sterile instruments?

*MR. MATHESON:* They're clean, not sterile.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that--is it sufficient to use clean instruments?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What's the distinction between clean and sterile?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in the case of a sterile instrument, it's
something that's been autoclaved at a high temperature to remove
absolutely every little bit of any form of biological material or, you
know, to render it useless in essence. They're sterile. It would be like
in surgical instruments and that type of thing. Clean is a matter of
wiping them down using a--what we call a chem-wipe, which is a, you
know, scientific tissue and a little bit of water or something wiping
off all the residue that's on it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is it accepted forensic practice to use clean
instruments as opposed to sterile in the field when you're collecting
biological instrument--biological samples?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you ever noticed any problems with that in the
years that you've been in serology?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have any problems been encountered as a result of using
clean instruments in terms of contaminating samples?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague, lack of foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, when you use clean instruments, do you use the
clean instruments to pick up the control and the swatch?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if there were a problem in using a clean instrument,
would you expect that to show up somewhere in the testing?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that's one of the reasons you take a control, is
to--you're handling it in the same way as you are the evidentiary
bloodstain or whatever biological stain it happens to be. And if there
was a problem in using clean rather than sterile, I would expect to see
an on-going problem with results showing up in our controls.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have you noticed any such problem in the years that
you've been in serology?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about change in gloves between the collection of
biological specimens? Is that something that's necessary?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not between every one. Just as a matter of course, I
would expect somebody to change them if the gloves got particularly
dirty or bloody from handling something. But just to say you have to
change it between every item, that's not necessary.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, for one thing, you want to be using techniques
that limit as much handling as possible with that item. Whether you're
wearing gloves or not wearing gloves doesn't mean that you're going to
be grabbing the item in inappropriate ways. You are trying to limit the
amount of contact that you have with it. And as a rule, even with gloves
on, your gloves never come in contact-- particularly when you're talking
about swatching bloodstains or something like that, come in direct
contact with the evidence item itself. So there would be no need to
change your gloves in between.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would it be possible to collect stains from a crime
scene--well, of course it would be possible. But could you collect
stains from a crime scene without using gloves?

*MR. MATHESON:* If you use good practice and not handle the evidence or
not allow it to come in contact with your skin, sure, you could do it
without gloves.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would there be some health concerns in doing it that way?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's--yeah. That's true. I mean, that's one of the
major reasons for wearing gloves and a lot of this protective equipment,
is to protect the operator from the evidence as opposed to the other way
around.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if there were some problem at the crime scene where
a person were collecting the evidence by touching the swatches with
their hands instead of using tweezers, could the controls detect whether
that had caused contamination?

*MR. MATHESON:* If somebody chose to collect bloodstains by just using
their fingers and then chose to use the exact same technique on the
controls--that's one of the reasons for the control like I mentioned
before. If the technique is the same and you're transferring information
or biological material from your own hands onto the evidence, you also
then would be transferring it onto the control and I would expect the
control to show that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And let's say that you decided to use this
technique, if you want to call it that, of just collecting the evidence
with your hands as opposed to tweezers. That would be--would that be an
improper technique in your judgment?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it would be improper.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But would that improper technique cause the blood at a
crime scene to somehow change into someone else's blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it's not going to change in any way. You may be
adding additional information to it from your own biological material,
but it wouldn't change what's already there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And similarly on the tweezers example, where we were
talking about clean versus sterile, is there any way that using clean
tweezers could change the biological information in the blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it's--it's--actually we touched on it off and on
before in that the only thing that's going to happen to a bloodstain is,
through degradation, you're going to get no result as opposed to a
changing in the type or the addition--if the tweezers happen to be not
as clean as you think or, you know, have become contaminated in some
way, you're going to have the addition of information to it rather than
the changing of the existing type that's there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if you were collecting a series of stains using one
of these improper techniques or the improper technique of not changing
gloves and using the glove itself to collect the stain as opposed to the
instrument, would you expect it to somehow change the biological
information in all of the stains consistently?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm not sure I understand the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In other words, if you had five stains at a crime scene,
would you expect the same changes to occur to all five stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* If your--if your gloves are dirty to the point where you
are adding information to it and continuously doing this, then you're
going to see--if I understand the question right, you will then see this
additional or contaminant showing up in all of the samples. Potentially
if you start off with a contaminant from your first sample and don't
recontaminate it so to speak, eventually you would use it up and I guess
your last sample may not show as much. But I don't--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. When you say "Contaminant," what do you mean by that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, contaminant is really anything that doesn't belong
in its original situation, example being, a bloodstain that is left at
the scene of a crime is a contaminant to that scene. Anything that's
added to that blood after the fact is contaminant to that blood. It's
something that doesn't belong.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So is there any more precise definition of contaminant
that's used in the forensic science community to discuss when
information is being added to a stain or to a piece of biological
evidence that didn't originate in that evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm--as far as--I mean, contaminant is what I described
before. I'm not aware of any particular definitions when it comes to
biological evidence. It's just the addition of something that didn't
belong there to begin with.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And so it's a fairly ambiguous term? Somewhat ambiguous.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Mischaracterizes the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't know if it's ambiguous so much as there is not a
forensic definition of contamination versus, you know, any other
definition of contamination.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So using the definition that you gave, could you
consider the blood drops themselves of a suspect deposited at a crime
scene as being a contaminant?

*MR. MATHESON:* It would be a contaminant to that location, right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, as to a--the collection techniques that were used
in this particular case, did you view a videotape of Andrea Mazzola
demonstrating the collection process of a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you see any problems that arose in the
collection of the mock items in that case--

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* --that could affect the collection?

*MR. MATHESON:* I didn't see anything in the way that she handled the
situation, the tweezers, that type of thing that would affect the
ultimate integrity of the evidence.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, I want to show you that videotape, but
apparently they don't have it right here. Let me ask you a few more
questions about collecting biological evidence. Is biological evidence,
can it be deposited both through direct and indirect forms?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is the distinction?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if I understand the question, a direct deposit
would be if I cut myself and then proceeded to drip it--excuse me--at a
scene or a location. An indirect--is that the other?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe an indirect or potentially secondary transfer
of that evidence or stain would be if I was to drip some of my blood
onto a piece of cloth or something like that, then that piece of cloth
came in contact with something else, thus transferring it a second time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you as a serologist type both kinds of evidence,
evidence that was deposited as a result of a direct transfer as opposed
to indirect transfer?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* If you had a situation where a suspect leaving a crime
scene stepped in a pool of blood and then went into a vehicle and
transferred that blood into the vehicle, would that be direct transfer
or indirect transfer?

*MR. MATHESON:* By the definition given earlier, I would call it indirect.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does your laboratory type that kind of a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, if you view the suspect's action as a collection
procedure, in terms of collecting the evidence in the pool of blood from
the crime scene, would that be a forensically accepted collection technique?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It would not be acceptable to collect a bloodstain
from a bottom of a shoe.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So why is it that in cases where evidence is collected
on the bottom of a shoe, you can still go ahead and test it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the blood is still the blood. I mean, it's a
situation where regardless of whether it was dropped directly from a
person or transferred from one to another, it still has some
significance. You're aware of the fact that it was not dripped there,
particularly when you see a smear or something along that line, but
there's still information that can be derived from that sample as far as
the genetic types that are present.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was--does the fact that the evidence is collected on the
bottom of a shoe change the genetic markers in the evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it doesn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So can it change the blood from the victim's blood into
someone else's blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it doesn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Let me give you another hypothetical situation. Let's
say you had a situation at a crime scene where a cat walked into the
crime scene and collected some of the blood by stepping in it with it's
paw. Could you collect the evidence off the cat's paw and still test that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, we could. I would want a control collected from a
clean paw to see if the cat contributed anything to it, but you could
test it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So if evidence at a crime scene could be collected
by a house cat, do you think that the criminalists Andrea Mazzola and
Dennis Fung were qualified to collect the evidence in this case?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Argumentative. Silly.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is silly an objection? I didn't know that.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's okay. I'll withdraw that question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I would like to show you the video that's been marked as
1117 for identification.

*THE COURT:* Noting that we have seen this several times, Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I know, your Honor, but I'm not going to stop it. We'll
just run it all the way through.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(At 1:45 P.M., People's exhibit 1117, a videotape, was played.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Mr. Matheson, did you notice that she did touch
the ground with her right hand, gloved hand?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does that present a problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why not?

*MR. MATHESON:* I would be concerned if her hand touched the ground and
then she took--with the glove on and then she took her glove--gloved
finger or something and smeared it around in the bloodstain. But with
the process of using the forceps or the tweezers, the glove never comes
in contact with the evidence itself.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And now she is laying down the control by card no. 5?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Assuming, sir, that the water in this control eventually
migrated over to the stain, would that present a problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the water is the exact same water that is being
used to dampen the control swatch and dampen the--eventually the swatch
you use to collect the bloodstain and the fact that--as you notice, she
takes her control very close to the stain. So the substrate or the
concrete that it's sitting on is going to be, you know, basically the
same under the stain as is under the control. The worse it's going to do
is maybe slightly dilute the bloodstain and it may actually start
moistening it up and making it easier to collect. No, that's not a problem.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would it change the result in any way, the migration of
the water?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it would not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, if you look closely, it appears that some swatches
fell out of the cap?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does that present a problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why not?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I don't believe that at any point does she take
any of those swatches and use them to collect any of the sample. They're
left sitting down there--actually they're brushed aside at some point.
You're going to drop them occasionally. I mean that's just--that's just
the nature of--there's a lot of swatches in that vial. You shake them
out, a few are going to fall on the ground. I suppose it could be a
minor littering problem if they didn't pick them up when they were done.
But as far as the evidence goes, no, it doesn't affect it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now she's collecting the stain from the item that was
labeled no. 5 in this demonstration?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now she appears to be putting stain 5 into one of the
plastic bags?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are those the kinds of plastic bags that you use at the
crime lab when you're collecting stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now we've gotten up to the point where she's already
collected the control and the stain from card no. 5?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you seen anything up to this point that would cause
the results that you obtained to change into someone else's blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I have not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That it would present a problem in terms of the analysis
of the blood?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Has her collection procedure been in accordance with the
way that you're training people at the crime laboratory to collect evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, she appears to be working on the
second stain at this time?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there any problem with not changing tweezers or
gloves between stain 5 and stain 6?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, as I mentioned earlier about the gloves, the
gloves are not coming into direct contact with the evidence. That's not
a problem. If you'll notice, she has cleaned the tweezers several times
between each of the steps using--dampening the chem-wipe that I
mentioned before, the tissue, with what appears to be water and then
wiping the tips of the tweezers or forceps off very carefully.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is this collected in such a way so that the swatch
itself does not come into contact with the gloved hands of the criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, she appears to just have written something on the
plastic bag. What do you write on the plastic bag when you're collecting
a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Actually depends. Obviously within one
envelope--eventually when you're collecting a stain off of something
like concrete or off of a surface, you're going to end up with a coin
envelope or the manila envelope containing two separate plastic bags
with the samples in it. Usually I like to mark either the item number on
it or if I don't do that, at least the c on the control plastic bag.
However, there have been times where it was very obvious which was my
control and which was the stain. The stain was blood colored and very
heavy and the control was either relatively clean or kind of a grayish.
So it didn't matter whether I marked them or not because it was obvious
which was which.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, just before this, she dropped a few more swatches.
Again, did that present any problem in terms of the collection of stain 6?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* She's just placed the swatch of no. 6, the blood swatch,
into the envelope?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Have you seen any problems in the collection procedure
to this point?

*MR. MATHESON:* No problems with the collection procedure. The only
thing that I would-- if this was a training issue or something for us or
if we were looking at it, I would suggest that maybe it would be worth
going back with another swatch on the evidence sample and collecting up
a little bit more blood. But as far as the collection technique itself,
it's just fine.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if it were a real stain, you'd want to use more
swatches on both 5 and 6?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, to get as much of the sample as possible.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Thank you.

/(At 1:55 P.M., the playing of the videotape was concluded.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* And why is it that you use multiple swatches on a
single stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we teach the people to select a swatch size that's
appropriate for a stain. If you have an extremely small drip, you don't
want to use a real large swatch because then the bloodstain gets kind of
diluted out over the swatch itself. If you have a large stain--and
theoretically, she could have gone with a larger swatch on that than she
had in--you know, that she had chosen. But odds are, that was among the
largest one that was in the vial. So instead of going to a much larger
one that isn't available, just use multiple smaller ones.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that typical, that multiple swatches are used in
collecting a stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when multiple swatches are used, is the criminalist
supposed to notate how many swatches they used at the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* There's no rule to that effect, no.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Why is it that you don't have a rule in place that
you should notate exactly how many swatches you used on a particular stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Because we've never found it to be important to know
exactly how much is there. You've got your photograph of the stain. The
evidence is the stain that's down there and the swatches are immediate
and collected on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's say that someone at a crime scene, a police
officer, didn't know how to collect a stain, had used a completely
improper technique such as taking out a handkerchief and spitting on it
to dampen it and then collected the stain using that technique, submit
it to you for analysis. Would it still be possible to type even in that
extreme situation?

*MR. MATHESON:* You could--yes, you could still do an analysis on that
stain.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Wouldn't the police officer have arguably introduced
some contaminant that could be tested as a result of spitting in the
handkerchief?

*MR. MATHESON:* Definitely. It would be an improper way to do it, but it
could still be typed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So what would you do in order to resolve that problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, in a situation like that, if that was the only
evidence that we had available to us, we would be able to run the
particular stain. I would want to run a control area from the Kleenex
and also get some saliva from the particular officer.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, what could you do if you had some saliva from the
particular officer in order to sort out what the genetic markers were in
the person who deposited the stain?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if you had saliva from the person and then that
particular marker appeared in the saliva, you'd know the type of the
individual who spit onto the handkerchief. This-- how that affects your
ultimate interpretation will depend an awful lot on the types that were
found in the stain and on the types of the person. It's obviously going
to lessen some of the value of that stain, but there's still information
there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Could you still determine whether the genetic markers of
the stain were consistent with the suspect even though this collection
procedure had been used?

*MR. MATHESON:* It's possible. It would depend on the types of the
people and how the results came out. But it's possible.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But would the spitting actually cause the genetic
markers of the suspect in the stain of blood to somehow change or would
they still be there?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, they'd still be there. You'd just be introducing
additional information to it in the form of the types of the person with
the saliva.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the Los Angeles Police Department serology
section in fact type cases routinely where there are mixtures, where
there's more than one donor to a particular stain or particular item of
biological evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. Every sexual assault case we do by nature, if
there's semen present on a sexual assault kit that's collected from a
victim, you're dealing with a mixture of body fluids.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in those kinds of cases, are you still able to test
that mixture to determine whether it contains genetic markers that are
consistent with the suspect?

*MR. MATHESON:* We're able to do the tests. However, because of the fact
that it's a mixture, our chances of giving a very definitive answer to
what's coming from the victim and what's coming from the suspect is less
than when you're dealing with just a bloodstain, but there is still
information to be derived.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are there still instances where you're able to find
that there's certain markers that are consistent with the suspect, but
inconsistent with the victim?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. We do on occasion include suspects based on what we
find that's foreign to the victim and could have come from that suspect.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And so in these sexual assault type cases, do you
usually get evidence of a mixture from two people?

*MR. MATHESON:* Many times, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And then if you get a mixture from two people, what do
you have to do in order to figure out which part of the mixture belongs
to the suspect and which part of the mixture belongs to the victim?

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I'm going to object to this line of
questioning. It's irrelevant as to mixed bloodstain.

*THE COURT:* Close. I think this is just a--let's wind this up.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. I'll withdraw that question then.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, sir, if bloodstains can be collected by people who
are not criminalists, why does the Los Angeles Police Department use
criminalists or try to use criminalists in collecting these stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, a criminalist is not just performing the function
of collecting a stain. What we have in our laboratory is what's called a
generalist's philosophy where we try and teach a criminalist about all
aspects of forensic science. They may specialize in one particular area
like toxicology or firearms or serology. But over--through experience
and involvement with other criminalists, we try and get them to have a
sense of the whole concept of forensics. So by having somebody out there
at the scene that works in the laboratory and is acquainted with all the
different possibilities that exist, when it comes to analyzing physical
evidence, it just enhances the possibility of collecting the best
possible evidence.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, at crime scenes, does the police department use
both criminalist 1's and criminalist 2's and 3's for the purpose of
investigating a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* We send--yes. We send all those out. Matter of fact, we
send out at times supervisors and lab directors go also.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you send a criminalist 1 to a crime scene, are
they paired with someone?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. As long as they're a criminalist 1, which is for
the first 18 months of their employment, they will always go with either
a Crime 2 or a Crime 3, preferably a criminalist 3.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is the purpose of sending a criminalist 1 with a
criminalist 3?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it's all part of the learning process. We're
always learning new things when we're out there and for that first 18
months or so, we try and get them out to as many scenes as possible,
exposed to a lot of different conditions and types of scenes, to the
variety of techniques that different criminalists have as they go
through their career and allow them to then establish their own, you
know, mind set or experience to collecting evidence so that when the
time comes that they are doing one on their own or potentially training
someone else, they have all the experience that is afforded to them.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So what is it that the criminalist 1 is learning in this
first 18 months? Are they learning the physical mechanics of how to pick
up evidence? Are they learning the mental processes that the criminalist
goes through?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, they're learning both. It depends on the
background of the individual. If we have somebody starting a laboratory
that has some sort of forensic background or experience, odds are
they've picked up the mechanics. We're going to confirm that the first,
you know, couple of times they go out. But, you know they're not
difficult techniques. After that, it's a matter of just getting exposed
to an awful lot of different ways of looking at a scene, the way of
thinking about how to go about processing it and just constantly picking
up experience. I still go on crime scenes myself where I learn something
from somebody else on either a better way to do it or, you know,
thinking about something that I hadn't thought of.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So after the criminalist 1 already knows the mechanical
techniques of how to pick up say biological evidence and shoeprint lifts
and the like, why is it that you just don't set them loose and let them
go to the crime scenes themselves for the remainder of their
probationary period?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it's--kind of like we were talking about before.
We want them to get as much experience as possible when it comes to how
to evaluate a scene. We can teach anybody to go out there and do some of
the mechanics, but there's this buffer, this 18 months from the time
somebody starts until they are considered crime scene ready or that's a
target that we shoot for where you are learning, you're just--like I
say, being exposed to new situations, new things, taking in as much
information you can about the mind set of investigating a crime scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say mind set of investigating a crime scene,
what are you talking about?

*MR. MATHESON:* The different philosophies of what type of evidence
exists, how to approach the evidence, how to think through and look
selectivity that we were talking about earlier as far as trying to find
the evidence that's most important to the questions at hand.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which part of being a criminalist in your experience in
terms of investigating crime scenes is more difficult? The mechanical
part of how to pick up a piece of evidence or the mental component of
what type of evidence to pick up?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it's definitely the mental component because, like
I just said, I've been doing it for almost 17 years and I'm still
learning stuff out there. I go out to a crime scene and almost always
get a little more insight on how to handle a scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when the criminalist is at the crime scene, do they
have an obligation to investigate whether there have been any
alterations in the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Their primary function there is the collection of the
evidence. The information as to whether or not something has been
altered is really not very deep. We sometimes record if like a rescue
unit had been in prior and dealt with the scene or something along that
line. But normally we have our hands pretty full just looking for the
evidence and collecting it, documenting and collecting it so that when
it comes to searching down very little bit of information as to whether
something was touched or something was moved, no, that's not our duty.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe we can see Defense 1081.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is a--is this a portion of the crime scene
identification checklist form?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And here there's a little section that says, "Has the
scene been altered; if so, by whom and how?" how is that portion of the
checklist supposed to be used?

*MR. MATHESON:* I have always used it and taught other people to use it
that it is for gross information. Like I just mentioned, if the rescue
unit had arrived prior to our being there because they many times leave
things behind that we don't want to collect as evidence if it was
brought in after the fact. Such things as if an area was washed down
prior to our arrival which does happen sometimes. More of that gross
type of information.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is the criminalist ever supposed to do formal
witness interviews of the people to determine whether the scene's been
altered so that this area can be filled out?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, they're not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, what about crime scene security? What does the
criminalist have to do with providing for security or seeing that
security is provided for at the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Our major concern when it comes to crime scene security
is just like wearing gloves or other protective equipment. I want to
make sure that this--excuse me--the scene is secure for my own safety
and protection. That's--I'm going to arrive, I'm going to make sure
there are officers at the scene or detectives or somebody else that's
present. The fact that we're civilian, that's important. As far as
making sure that there are--is tape up or officers present to keep out
people that may alter the scene, it's not our responsibility to do that.
There have been instances where I have been working a scene and somebody
has walked through the tape and is like heading into the crime scene or
something and I will see it before the officer and I'll point it out,
say, "We need to get this person out of here," but that is not my prime
focus. My prime focus is in on the evidence and in on the evidence
collection.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, at a crime scene, is it typical that photographs
are taken both before the body is removed and then after the body is
removed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why is that done?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, to properly process a crime scene, you want the
photographer in there as early as possible before--you know, obviously
there are certain things that must occur. If you have a victim, there's
going to be an initial responding officer, somebody going in to clear
the scene or whatever. That's prior to our arrival. But as far as
processing a scene, we want a photographer to go in even before the
criminalist to document everything exactly how it is before we get in
there and start, you know, moving things around or taking measurements
or walking through the scene. We then have the--after the overalls or
the general shots are taken, have our individual evidence items
photographed, and that can be happening either before or after the
bodies are present.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How often is it that a piece of evidence is moved
between the before photographs and the after photographs?

*MR. MATHESON:* It happens occasionally.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in what context does it happen?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, there are times where a particular piece of
evidence may have some information on it that is needed at the moment, a
piece of paper with some writing on it, an item that we want checked for
blood or something like that. If the photographer isn't available, there
will be times--knowing that the overalls were taken, knowing that the
general scene has been placed with photography, we may pick that item
up, run a presumptive test on it or, like I said, like a piece of paper
with some writing or something and then try to place it back for the
close-up picture just prior to collection, and sometimes it's not going
to be placed back in the exact same location. And it does occasionally
happen too that during the course of your processing, you may
accidentally bump something or you may kick it. You try real hard to
watch where you're stepping, but sometimes you do get focused on other
things that you're doing and evidence does get moved. That's one reason
why it's so important to get the photographer in there first because
those are the pictures that place the evidence items where they belong
or where they were originally, and then the subsequent photography is
mainly to identify that item, to get good close-up pictures of it so at
a later time, you can compare it to what you have in front of you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So part of the reason for taking the four photographs is
so that if an item of evidence is moved, you can determine exactly where
it was initially?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in the testimony that you heard, did you hear some
evidence as to a phenolphtalein test being performed on the glove at the
Rockingham location?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that acceptable from a forensic standpoint and
from a crime scene investigation standpoint?

*MR. MATHESON:* You mean as far as running a presumptive test in the field?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*MR. MATHESON:* It is. However, it depends on the particular item. If
there was an evidence item or an extremely small spot of blood or an
extremely small stain that you thought might be blood and that by
running your presumptive test was going to consume either all or a major
portion of that stain, I would not want the criminalist to run it. I
wouldn't run it myself. I would just collect it where you can then do
that same test in the laboratory, but on a much more micro scale.
However, many times in the field, we do test objects and bloodstains for
the presence of blood, and if you have a large stain, you can see an
area that's discolored, in this case, the glove, that was
showing--because it was a black glove, you didn't necessarily see what
was obviously red blood on it.

*MR. BLASIER:* I would object to the narrative response.

*THE COURT:* We are. We've gone beyond the original question. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, would you have done a phenolphtalein test had you
been asked by one of the officers there to perform one in the field?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In this particular case, based upon your understanding
of the evidence, would doing a phenolphtalein test harm or somehow
interfere with the ability to do future testing on that glove?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague as to this particular case.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I take it we're talking about the--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Phenolphtalein.

*THE COURT:* Which glove?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Talking about the Rockingham glove.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. MATHESON:* The only thing it would do would be to remove a small
amount of the blood that was present. It would not alter the type any.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do the criminalists comply with reasonable requests that
are asked of them at the officers at the scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they do.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And would it be reasonable in your estimation under the
facts and circumstances of this case as you know them to have requested
a criminalist to do a phenolphtalein test on the Rockingham glove?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* It's vague. What is, you know, reasonable in a scientific
sense, is that what we're interested in?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In a scientific sense, from a forensic science standpoint.

*THE COURT:* Do you understand the question?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. Yes, I believe it would be reasonable.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Generally speaking, at a crime scene, how do
criminalists interact with the detective?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* It's vague.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is the relationship in terms of the collection of
the evidence between the detective and the criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* As far as the collection of the evidence, that's the
domain of the criminalist. Normally when we arrive, the detectives have
already been there. They do the walk-through with us. We interact with
them, get their opinion as to what they have found, what evidence they
are interested in collecting and we note those items either, you know,
mentally or on paper, depending on the person, and do a search
ourselves. So we try and interact with them, you know, working as a team
regarding that aspect of the crime, and that is the scene and the
collection of physical evidence.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you also hear some testimony about a blanket
that was at one point brought out for the purposes of covering Nicole Brown?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what kind of problem would that blanket present if
any in terms of the biological evidence at the Bundy location?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, if a blanket were brought out into a crime
scene--are you familiar with the layout of the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* --into the area where the body of Nicole Brown had been
laying for the purposes of covering her and then the blanket remained
there after she was removed, would that present a problem in terms of
the biological evidence that was collected from the Bundy location?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. Vague and no foundation.

*THE COURT:* I'll sustain the vague--the question is unintelligible.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would that present a problem in terms of contaminating
any of the biological evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* If a--would depend--it would depend on what the blanket
had on it to begin with. If the blanket had, you know, large quantities
of blood or had blood on it and then that blood came into contact with
something we eventually ended up collecting, then we would have
contamination occurring at that point. If it was a clean blanket as far
as the biological evidence is concerned and it does not come in contact
with the collected evidence item, it should have no effect.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Well let's assume hypothetically that the blanket
had some saliva from the Defendant in this case on it that had dried and
did not come into contact with the stains that were collected along the
trail. Would the blanket present a problem in terms of contaminating
those stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it would not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What would you have to do in order for the blanket to
contaminate the stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* The biological stain on the blanket would have to
come--somehow come into direct contact with the biological sample that
was being collected. And even then, unless there was some moisture
present, you would not have significant transfer. If one or both of them
was damp and they came in direct contact with each other, then that
would be a problem. You would have potential transfer of one body fluid
into the other that's contaminating it. But beyond that, it should not
have a problem.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And so even in the case of direct contact, you're saying
that the biological material on the blanket would probably have to be
wet in order for there to be a transfer?

*MR. MATHESON:* For there to be a significant transfer. I would not like
to see that happen and I would be concerned about any sample that that
happened to, but the transfer would be significantly less than if one or
both were damp.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if it did not come into direct contact, then you're
saying that if we were to assume that the only biological evidence were
the hypothetical dried saliva, it would not present a problem?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, does DNA tend to fly around in the air at a crime
scene and deposit itself wherever it happens to land?

*MR. MATHESON:* Just randomly floating around the scene?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I wouldn't expect that to happen.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if you have a crime scene where biological evidence
has been deposited by a suspect who was bleeding on a trail of stains,
do you expect biological evidence from one stain to migrate to the other
stain if we assume that these are discreet drops?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't see any way that, if they're discreet drops, how
you would get one transfer into the other unless there was something
carrying it from one to the other.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But it doesn't just like hopscotch from one stain to
another in some fashion?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you also hear some evidence to the effect that
the glove from the Rockingham location was in a brown paper bag and was
brought into the caged-off area where the body of Ron Goldman was located?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what problem if any does that present in terms of
contaminating the crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, merely bringing an item in in a paper bag should
have no effect whatsoever on the evidence at that location.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about on the glove?

*MR. MATHESON:* You mean evidence from the scene getting into the--onto
the glove?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah.

*MR. MATHESON:* The same thing. You're--it's inside of a paper bag. It's
not coming in direct contact with any of the evidence at the scene. I
don't see where it would be a problem.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, there was also some evidence of some socks being
recovered at the Rockingham location. Are you generally familiar with that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I am.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you took a look at those socks yourself?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. A couple times.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, would you expect there to have been flaking from
blood encrusted on those socks at the time that they were taken off
based upon what you saw?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you do an analysis on the socks yourself?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And were you familiar with the extent to
which blood was visible on the socks from the naked eye?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, was there sufficient quantity of blood that
you would expect flaking off the socks at the time they were taken off?

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm going to object to that without further foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Expertise.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Under what conditions, sir, will blood flake off
of clothing, if you know?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if you have--it kind of depends on the quantity.
If you have a--well, let me take a step back again on that. By flaking
off, I mean, you are going to have the potential of very small minute
quantities of blood falling off, which could be called flaking, or if
you have a very heavily stained item that has crusts of blood on it,
then flaking could be visible chunks of the blood falling off.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, when you saw the socks, were there any visible
chunks of blood of the kind that you just described that might fall off?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection. No foundation as to time.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When did you see the socks, sir?

*MR. MATHESON:* The first time I saw the socks was on June 29th, 1994.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what did they--did they have that kind of blood,
blood that was in sufficient chunks that you would expect it to flake
off at that time?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, they did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, when an item such as the socks is collected in the
field, is the criminalist supposed to do a close physical examination of
it prior to collection?

*MR. MATHESON:* There's no rule that says that they have to do a--a
close examination of any of the items they collect at the scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Would there be any reason to?

*MR. MATHESON:* None other than maybe personal curiosity. If you have an
item that you are collecting anyway, there would be no particular good
reason to do a very minute examination of that item at the scene.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* After you've already made a decision to collect the
item, is there any reason from a forensic standpoint to inspect it any
further on the scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not in general. If there was some particular piece of
information somebody was interested in depriving from, then maybe it
would require a closer look. But once it's been decided to collect, then
you're going to do that back at the laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in terms of the removal of the bodies from the
Bundy location, do you feel that a decision should have been made to
wait until the criminalist had the opportunity to look at the area where
the bodies were removed before they were removed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how do you go about making that decision as to
whether to allow the Coroner in first or the criminalist in first?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, normally we like to get in and do our search, get
our overall photos, do our search and collect at least all the evidence
right around the body or bodies prior to the Coroner's arrival. Our
concern is the total scene where theirs is the victim, and we like to
get done as much of our work is possible so as to limit--to limit the
amount of activity in and out, around that evidence until it's collected.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So how are you balancing the need for them to do their
work against the need for you to do your work?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, I mean, I'm looking at it from my perspective.
From my perspective, the information that we get and the evidence that's
surrounding the area is just as important or more so than what they may
derive from the bodies at the scene, and I'm going to be protective of
that and want to get my work done first before there's any chance of any
sort of disruption or contamination caused by--there's a lot of handling
involved when the Coroner's office arrives.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So from your perspective, would it have been desirable
to wait--have waited even longer before allowing the Coroner's people to
have access to the bodies?

*MR. MATHESON:* From my perspective, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, we've had a lot of discussion about what Andrea
Mazzola's exact job description and title is. Can you tell us what her
title is?

*MR. MATHESON:* She's a criminalist 1.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is there such a category as a criminalist trainee?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, there is not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you use that term officially to designate a
criminalist 1?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, we do not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And also, there was a description of a mini academy. Are
you familiar with that term?

*MR. MATHESON:* The first time I heard mini academy was in this Court.
There is an SID academy, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So you just refer to it as "The academy"?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we refer to it as SID academy. It's a simple way
of talking about training courses we have for new people.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. But in terms of an academy, it's not a thing where
you sleep in dormitory-style housing for a period of time, is it?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It's much more informal than that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And at the mini academy, are the criminalists trained in
how to do the physical collection techniques at a crime scene?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's one of the things that are discussed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what other kinds of things come up at that mini
academy just in general? I'm sorry. Academy.

*MR. MATHESON:* Part of that set of training courses is to acquaint new
people with what criminalistics is all about. The people that we hire
many time are not fully acquainted with forensics, do not have prior
forensic experience. So part of that process is teaching them what the
other units are about, giving them an overall concept of what
criminalistics is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you say that they all are not acquainted with
criminalistics or forensics, does that mean that you're hiring some
people who don't have degrees in criminalistics?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So what are their degrees in?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the requirement for the position is a
baccalaureate degree in a natural science. And we have many people that
have degrees in chemistry, biology, biochemistry. I believe we have one
in zoology, one in oceanography. We want people that--or require that
people have a degree in a science so that they've learned basic
scientific principles and the scientific method and that type of thing,
and then we train them within the laboratory about forensics.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Were you aware that Andrea Mazzola did have a degree in
criminalistics?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And on the 13th of June, were you aware that Andrea
Mazzola and Dennis Fung were processing the crime scenes at the
Rockingham and Bundy locations?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is it generally desirable to have more than two
criminalists handling a given case in terms of collecting the evidence
on a single day?

*THE COURT:* Haven't we covered this already?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Not with this witness.

*THE COURT:* We talked about having teams and the advantages and listing
documents--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* More than two. I haven't discussed that.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That's an issue that came up. I'll be very brief. Then
I'm moving on to another area, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Well, be brief. Then we're going to take a break.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. MATHESON:* Two is actually a fairly optimal number. I have done
many scenes by myself and I feel that that is not the best way to do it.
I've done several scene--many scenes with two people, and that is great
because you've got somebody working with you, you can bounce ideas off
of each other, get assistance when it comes to taking notes, collecting
the items. You actually do it quicker and I think better with two. When
you get past that into three and even four, which would be excessive,
you just have too many people in the scene. Many times, the scenes in a
crime that we go out to, the location of them is very limited and you
just start getting too many bodies in there, you start bumping into each
other and it's not as easy. So two is probably the best number to handle
as a crime scene search team.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. Your Honor, I was now going to get into another--

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Area.

*THE COURT:* Ladies and gentlemen, we're going to take a recess at this
point for 15 minutes. Please remember all of my admonitions to you;
don't discuss the case amongst yourselves, form any opinions about the
case, don't allow anybody to communicate with you, do not conduct any
deliberations until the matter has been submitted to you. Mr. Matheson,
you can step down. You are to return in 15 minutes. We'll stand in
recess for 15.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record in the Simpson matter. All
parties are again present. The jury is not present. Counsel, during the
course of Mr. Matheson's testimony, Mr. Byrne, my research attorney,
gave each party a photocopy of the handwritten 11-page list of evidence
items in this matter. I did have Mrs. Robertson get the exhibits from
the August griffin hearing and August, `94, griffin hearing, and it does
include a copy of this as item k, so the Defense did mark that, they did
have access to it at that early time, so the record should be clear. And
Mr. Blasier, you have a copy of that now before you?

*MR. BLASIER:* I do, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Do you feel you need any additional time before we move
into this item?

*MR. BLASIER:* No.

*THE COURT:* All right. As to the second item, the board that the
Prosecution proposes to use regarding the Defense testing of evidence
items, we are taking those item matters out of Prosecution's custody for
evidence purposes. I'm going to ask the Prosecution not to use that
board this afternoon because I'm not comfortable with the state of my
research at this point. All right. Let's proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, there was one other issue that I wanted to
bring up and that was I wanted to maybe--I guess what would be a 402
type motion as to what extent Mr. Matheson will be allowed to discuss
the issues of PCR typing and PCR type issues, which he is not testifying
to in direct except only extremely tangentially to the extent that
evidence collection has some overlap to the issue of how a sample can be
contaminated. It is subsequently going to be tested, both conventionally
and genetically. Specifically, there was an issue regarding some--a
lot--not a lot in number, but a lot as in discreet identifiable number
of test kits that were provided to the Los Angeles Police Department by
Roche Pharmaceutical sometime before this case, I believe it was many
months, in which there was a procedure that was identified with the kits
that I'm sure counsel probably intends to get into with perhaps other
witnesses, but Mr. Matheson does not have any personal knowledge of
that, nor has he read any documents, to my understanding, pertaining to
that, so we would ask that they be precluded from getting into that area
on cross-examination of the witness.

*THE COURT:* Well, having not heard anything about it yet, I'm loathe to
make any kind of a ruling on the basis that this is prematurely brought
before the Court. If it exceeds the scope of the direct examination--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm sure the Defense will come up with some reason that
it is within the scope or necessary to cross-examine Mr. Matheson about
it. I don't know.

*THE COURT:* Well, I haven't heard it yet.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, there has been plenty of questions about
contamination and that is directly on point in terms of contamination
for later DNA testing, so I think it has already been raised.

*THE COURT:* Perhaps, but within the specifics of this witness'
knowledge regarding PCR testing and the exquisitely sensitive nature of
that test, I don't know if he has the expertise to testify to that.

*MR. BLASIER:* He is in charge of the lab.

*THE COURT:* I don't know. We will see. It is not here yet, guys. All
right. Let's have the jurors.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Let
the record reflect we have been rejoined by all the members of our jury.
Mr. Gregory Matheson is again on the witness stand undergoing direct
examination by Mr. Goldberg. Good afternoon again, Mr. Matheson.

*MR. MATHESON:* Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* You are reminded, sir, you are still under oath. And Mr.
Goldberg, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, I wanted to ask you some questions about
the Scientific Investigations Division facility. Where is that located?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is located in a city building called the C. Irwin
Piper Technical Building or Piper Tech for short.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, at this time I would like to mark as
People's next in order 206 for identification which is a board that
contains photographs and a map of the SID facility.

*THE COURT:* All right. People's 206.

/(Peo's 206 for id = posterboard)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Bancroft, I'm going to need you to help me
with this. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, directing your attention to People's 206 for
identification, do you recognize this exhibit and the photographs on it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is there any sort of accreditation agency that covers
crime laboratories in the United States?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that a public entity or a private entity or--

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it is association made up of crime laboratories
that have been accredited. It is called the ASCLAD or American Society
of Crime Laboratory Directors Laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But I mean is that a governmental agency or is it a
private agency outside the government?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it is not--my understanding is it is not an agency
in and of itself. Most of the members of it are accredited laboratories
which are government.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is it mandatory under state or federal law that you have
that accreditation from this organization?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, it is not. It is a voluntary process.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does it cost money to become accredited?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* A how much?

*MR. MATHESON:* It depends on the laboratory. The cost is associated
with--it is actually associated with a couple of things. One of them is
if there are any sort of facility changes or something obviously the
agency has to come up with the money to meet the accreditation
standards, but just to apply, there is a fee associated with the
inspection process, and my understanding is for an agency of our size it
could be anywhere from say ten to $30,000.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So you would have to pay ten to $30,000 to get this
accreditation?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does it allow you to do anything that you can't do now?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. It is just a review by this outside agency of
whether or not we meet the standards that they have established.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Has this city come up with the ten to $30,000 for you to
be able to buy this accreditation?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it is not a matter of buying the accreditation. It
is paying for an inspection to see whether or not you pass. No, to this
day we have not received the funding to do that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, turning your attention to this map that is 206 for
identification, does this depict the Piper Tech portion of the SID
Scientific Investigations Division?

*MR. MATHESON:* (No audible response.)

*MR. GOLDBERG:* The map?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. The map itself covers the area that is part of SID
and Piper Tech, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are there facilities that SID has that are outside
of Piper Tech?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, there is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are there photographs of the facility that are
outside of Piper Tech over here if you look in the upper left-hand corner?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. There is actually two graphs that depict part of
our laboratory that is located inside of the police administrative
building or Parker Center.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That was where the old dragnet series was filmed?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. At least that is--it looks like that, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, what is done, if you know, in the facility
that is located at Parker Center?

*MR. MATHESON:* The suite of three or four rooms that we have over there
are part of our PCR laboratory.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And PCR is?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is a technique used to identify DNA markers that are
present in body fluids and other biological samples.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You said that did you conventional testing on some of
the evidence in this indication?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What facility did that take place in?

*MR. MATHESON:* That testing all occurred at Piper Tech in the serology
unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So that would represent, when we are talking about Piper
Tech, the area that is depicted on the SID Piper Tech map on this
exhibit 206?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, how old is the Los Angeles Police Department
Scientific Investigations Division?

*MR. MATHESON:* I don't know, but the crime laboratory has been in
existence since 1923, I believe.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was it the first crime laboratory that was set up in the
country, to your knowledge?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Even before the FBI?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how old is this physical plant?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe we moved here in February of 1990, I think or
`91. `90.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, do you have certain security procedures that
are in place in terms of the physical plant located at the Piper Tech
facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And who is in charge of that?

*MR. MATHESON:* I'm the security manager of that facility.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And specifically do you have a card key
system to get in and out of the facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. We have--it is an electronic tracking system that
you have to use an electronic card and it reads your card, determines
whether or not you have access to a particular door at that time of day
and that day of the week. If--if you do, then it unlocks the door for
you and allows you to enter the facility or any of the individual labs
at that point. If you don't, the door remains locked.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And you can see the photograph up on the elmo that says
"Card key entry"? No?

*THE COURT:* I think we are upside down. Mr. Matheson, why don't you
grab the pointer.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I see it is a little lopsided as oriented under here on
the elmo.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why don't you, just using pointer on the hard copy, 206,
what is depicted in this photograph?

*MR. MATHESON:* What we have here is a photograph that shows the door
frame, alongside here somebody's hand that is holding one of our access
cards in it, and there is an antenna inside of the wall. If you hold
your card up in the vicinity of that antenna, it reads your card, reads
the code that is on the card, checks the computer to determine whether
or not you have access to that door at the time of day, that day of the
week.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And who has access to the crime laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* The people that work in the facility. The access levels
vary. It depends on whether we are talking about the outside entrance or
the interior one or the variety of different labs. It is limited to the
people that work in the facility or the other members of our crime
laboratory that happen to work in some of the outside locations.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Well, let's start with just if you want to get
into the portion of the facility--maybe we can see the outside of the
crime lab photograph that says "Sid Piper Tech." we had it up there a
little while ago. Okay. Is this the outside of the facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. This is the outside wall of the laboratory, which
is within the larger building called Piper Tech.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, do you need a card key entry to get through
this door?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not during normal working hours which are Monday through
Friday from the morning until the evening. On weekends and at night and
in the very early morning that door remains locked and the only way you
can get in is by having one of the card keys and having access to the
facility at that time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So who has the authority, through these card keys, to
get into the facility either in the evening or off hours?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we do have some light-duty police officers that
work as couriers. They work in the A.M. hours, so they have access in
getting in. All of the criminalists can enter into the facility
during--through this outside door anytime of the day or night and we
also have the opportunity to make temporary changes likes sometimes our
administrative staff or our support staff needs to get in to do some
work on a weekend or something like this and we will do a temporary
change on their access so that they can get in to work.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the call-out line from that photograph where
this facade is located, the tiles--

*MR. MATHESON:* Yeah. This particular wall along this area here,
(Indicating), on the--near where the says "Entrance," that is that door
right there, (Indicating).

*MR. GOLDBERG:* After you get into the entrance, if you can see the area
that says "Lobby."

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, right in this area right here, (Indicating).

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can we see that photograph.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Then there is another door on the right side of the
photograph and a window on the left. What is the door?

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. The door that is depicted on the right side of the
photograph here is the door that actually goes into the hallway area of
the laboratory. Like I mentioned before, this outside door unlocks and
stays unlocked during what we consider our normal business hours, so
anybody can come and go during that door; however, to get actually into
the laboratory you need to again show your card to an area so that the
antenna can pick up the code and then it allows you in if you have
access to it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And can the couriers go in there?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they can.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what about the criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, after you are through that door--if we
could see the picture that says "Entry corridor." does that show the
view that you have after you have entered through that door?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. Right after walking through this door,
(Indicating), that is your view down the hallway. You are looking down
now in this direction, (Indicating).

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And the hall is kind of in a square that goes around the
facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* Right. The hallway, once you get passed here,
(Indicating), anybody, you know, once they have passed through that
door, has access to this hallway area and then back over, (Indicating).

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So when you are saying "That door," on the
diagram, are you pointing to the door that is next to the call-out--that
is just to the left of the call-out line that is adjacent to photograph
no. 21 that says "Entry corridor"?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. It is a door that is directly opposite
the entrance into the lobby.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you said "Here," there is what appears to be a
corridor and it has various red crosses in it.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. There is a corridor that runs basically
around the--not the perimeter, but through the middle of the laboratory.
You can walk all the way around without going back to this one point,
(Indicating).

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, other than the couriers, do any uniformed
police officers have access to the corridor, the area past--in the
corridor that you just described?

*MR. MATHESON:* The only other uniformed officers that have a card key
that gives them access into the laboratory is we do have one officer
that works as a narcotics analyst within the laboratory and that would
be it, other than the couriers.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does he have a degree in criminalistics?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. I believe his degree is in chemical engineering.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So he is actually working as a criminalist in one of the
laboratories?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So he is the only officer that has access to the
corridor area, other than the couriers?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about detectives?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. Detectives would have to be escorted in or allowed
into that corridor area.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* With a criminalist?

*MR. MATHESON:* With a criminalist or with other personnel that happen
to have access to it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, there are any windows in any part of this facility?

*MR. MATHESON:* Not looking to the outside. The only windows that we
have are from some laboratories into the hallway.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's take a look at the evidence processing room.
Up in the upper right-hand corner of the photograph on the left side,
what does that depict?

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. This picture marked "Sid EPR," EPR stands for
evidence processing room is--points to an area in the upper right-hand
corner of the map here that is marked "Evidence room." this is the area
where--when evidence is collected out in the field, it is brought into
this room to be dried and then eventually identified, marked and stored
or prepared for storage.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And there appears to be a roll-up door in this
photograph on the right-hand side. What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's--on the right-hand side of the photograph here is
a door that pulls up, rolls up here, rolls up towards the top, and it is
this thinner line to the right of the evidence processing room, 29-b.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And the call-out line on that photograph depicts where
the photograph is showing?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, that roll-up door, do you have to roll it up by
going inside the evidence processing room?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. The only way to roll it up is on the inside of the
wall next to the door between the storeroom and the evidence processing
room, is a control button that says, I think up, down and stop or
something like that. That is the only way that door can be opened.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the--the door to the evidence processing room
itself, I guess it would be the door that is between the storeroom and
the evidence processing room, is that also card key controlled?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, who has access to this room?

*MR. MATHESON:* The--the door that exists between the storeroom and the
evidence processing room, all criminalists have access to that room 24
hours a day seven days a week so that they can bring evidence in there.
Other personnel, such as our lab technicians that we have in the
laboratory and some of our student workers, have access to that room
during normal working hours, during the day, Monday through Friday. The
support staff, clerical staff, do not have access to that area.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So that the support staff do have access to the corridor
area, don't they?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But they can't get into the evidence processing room
through their card keys?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What are the student workers?

*MR. MATHESON:* Student worker, that is a position that we have, I
believe we currently have three of them. They are people that have an
interest in forensics, are working toward their degree for eventually
becoming a criminalist. The positions we currently have for them is we
have one in toxicology, one in our trace unit and one in serology. They
assist the criminalists with like preparing some of the chemicals,
whatever needs to be done, that can free up the criminalist to do case work.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in terms of the evidence processing room, can
someone who has a card, well, with respect to any of the card key entry
areas, can someone who has a card bring in someone who doesn't?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in the case of police officers, are police officers
allowed into the evidence processing room?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And if they were allowed in there, would they have to be
accompanied by someone?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So they do not have a card to get into that portion of
the facility either?

*MR. MATHESON:* No. They would not be able to get in there without being
escorted by somebody.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Other than the one gentleman who is working as a chemist
in the toxicology, did you say?

*MR. MATHESON:* In our narcotics.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Narcotics. All right. Let's take a look at the evidence
control unit now. This is showing what ECU lobby, the photograph?

*MR. MATHESON:* The photograph that is marked "ECU lobby," ECU stands
for evidence control unit. That is a property storage room that is
actually run from within SID. The Los Angeles Police Department has
property officers and we have a property division, but SID has our own
property room of items that are--will probably be eventually analyzed,
so they are very nearby and under our control. The picture that is
depicted and marked "ECU lobby" is an area that is just off of the
laboratory lobby, marked "Lobby" on the map here. The only way to get to
it is from the outside entrance through the criminalistic lobby and into
the ECU lobby.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when a police officer is coming to the laboratory to
pick up evidence for Court, where does he or she go?

*MR. MATHESON:* They go into the ECU lobby. They can only--the front
door is unlocked so they can come in there. They pass through the
criminalistic lobby into the ECU lobby and there is a couple of windows
where our property officers can interact with them, find out what
evidence they need and then they go back and get them and bring it
forward to them.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that is what they would do if they wanted to check
out evidence that needed to be brought to Court to be introduced?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's take a look at the inside the ECU. Let's see
if we have a good photograph of that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* There is something that says "ECU freezer." what does
that depict?

*MR. MATHESON:* The picture down here that is marked "ECU freezer,"
(Indicating), is a shot taken approximately what would be in this--on
the map it is marked "Evidence control unit room 36," partway between
the lobby and what is marked as "Freezer." looking in the direction
toward the freezer, it shows the door. Very large freezer area where we
store our biological evidence.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, who can actually come into the evidence control unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* The access through the door that goes from the ECU lobby
into the evidence control unit itself is limited to our property
officers that actually work in that facility can come and go through
there. The administrative staff of the crime laboratory, in other words,
the captain that we have and then the three directors have access to
that, plus a couple of our supervisors also have access into it, such as
the narcotics supervisor who has to check in and out narcotics a lot for
analysis, it simplifies life for everybody for him to be able to get
access to that area.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What about the criminalists?

*MR. MATHESON:* The criminalists do not have access through that door
until somebody from--this does have access allows them in.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, if a person, a criminalist, has brought back
wet stains from a crime scene in the plastic bags and then has dried
them, they do that in the evidence processing room that we saw earlier
with the roll-up door?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And after those are dried and the paperwork is filled
out and they are ready to be booked, what do they do with them?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, once all the paperwork is done and they are
packaged and all the seals are in place on the packages, they are taken
from the evidence processing room to the lobby of the evidence control
unit at which point they are turned over to a property officer for
storage. If it is a biological, it is stored in the freezer. If it is a
liquid blood or urine sample, it could be stored in some refrigeration
units we have. Everything else goes on just shelves that are room--room
temperature storage.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So when the criminalist brings items into the evidence
control unit window for the purposes of booking them, they are in a
sealed condition at that time?

*MR. MATHESON:* They are supposed to be, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are there any circumstances in which they can't be sealed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, if the item is so large that it doesn't fit into
an envelope or a box, a sample again being a shopping cart, I had to
book a shopping cart myself about four or five months ago, obviously
that is not going to be sealed into a big box, there is no reason to, so
a tag is placed on it and it is stored back in the evidence control unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But items such as the coin envelopes with the biological
evidence in this case, those kind of items or the packages containing
the reference vials, those were sealed before being booked?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now--and if the freezer--if they go into the freezer,
they are going into the freezer that is depicted here in photograph no. 26?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, what about the reference vials? Where do
those go?

*MR. MATHESON:* The reference blood vials, because you do not want to
freeze liquid blood that are in the vials, we just want to refrigerate
them, there are units that for the--well, it is a motorized type of unit
that holds bins that is refrigerated. The blood vial in its sealed
envelope is placed into a bin, placed into this unit and then can be
rotated up and out of sight or out of the way if you need to look for
another one.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why don't we take a look at the photographs that says
"ECU rotomats." it is photograph no. 27.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is part of the evidence control unit that we are
looking at now?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is. The picture that is marked "ECU rotomats" is
of these units that I was describing that had the bins in them that can
be rotated up and down, are located mostly all along the wall that is on
the bottom of the map on the chart.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Why don't we take a look at the photograph that says
"ECU rotomat refrigerator," 29.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* This is one of the types of refrigerators into which the
reference vials are placed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes. It works in exactly the same way as the regular
rotomats, but it is refrigerated so we can keep the item cool in there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So then do these bins go all the way up to the ceiling
and in a circle kind, of a conveyor belt type mechanism?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is the best way to explain. There are shelves that
can be rotated allowing us to get a large amount of storage in that area
and being able to bring down a particular bin that you are interested in
and remove your evidence item.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When reference items are stored in the rotomat
refrigerated, are they stored in alphabetical order, numerical order or
in some particular kind of order?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So how does anyone ever find a reference vial?

*MR. MATHESON:* There is an evidence tracking system that we use in ECU
and in the laboratory that allows us to use bar codes and when a, for
example, a reference blood sample inside of its sealed envelope when it
is first booked in by a criminalist or whoever it is, is given a bar
code. That package then is taken back to one of--and I think we have
three that are refrigerated--placed into an open bin. The package is
scanned, bar code is scanned, the location is scanned, they just put it
wherever there is space for it, and that information is loaded into the
computer so if you wanted at a later time to find that blood sample, you
would have to access the computer, enter into the DR number and find out
what the item number is and tell us where which bin is located and in
which unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if you tried to look for it manually, how difficult
would that be?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is horrendous because we have probably at least a
couple thousand blood samples stored in there. You would have to go
through every one of them and manually look at each one of them.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the items that just have--require
shelf storage that don't require being placed in either a refrigerator
or the freezer, where do those go?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, looking again at the diagram, we have shelf
storage units that start down in the evidence control unit with where
the word "Room" is and run down the middle of this corridor passed where
it says "Evidence control," there is bins that are along the walls next
to the freezer, along the walls next to what is marked "Flammable
storage," and then there is also--those are for the larger box items.
There is also shelf storage in--in the rotomats.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does all of the evidence that LAPD has in its
possession, is all of it placed into this room, the evidence control unit?

*MR. MATHESON:* No.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What evidence is?

*MR. MATHESON:* We want to only have evidence in the ECU that may some
day be analyzed by the crime laboratory. The department receives very
large quantities of evidence everyday and most of it we will never see
within SID, within the laboratory, so we limit it to those things that
will eventually be analyzed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are there security procedures that are set up--well,
let me ask you this first: In the evidence control unit is there any
evidence that is inherently valuable that is kept?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we have narcotics in there.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do you have anything else?

*MR. MATHESON:* (No audible response.)

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Of inherent value?

*MR. MATHESON:* We have long guns, handguns. I believe there is some
money. I don't know where that is stored, but there are things that have
value in and of themselves.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So are the security procedures that are in place
designed to deal with the inherently valuable evidence such as the
narcotics and the firearms?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And to your knowledge has this facility ever had any
problems with that kind of evidence being misplaced or stolen?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, not to my knowledge.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's go to the serology lab and take a look at
that, a photograph that says "Inside serology."

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, what does this photograph depict?

*MR. MATHESON:* This is a photograph that is taken inside the serology
unit depicted on the map here says "Serology 25." the 25 is the room
number. That particular photograph would have been taken probably about
where the "Z" is in the zone 6 to 7 looking towards the right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And towards the end of it is what appears to be a metal
door that is somewhat obscured towards the end of the room. It appears
to be left of the clock?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is a door that goes into a combination refrigerator
and freezer within the serology unit. It is located--they are both
located down on the right side here of the unit itself, (Indicating).
You would enter through that metal door into the refrigerator and then
walk through another door into a freezer.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is the purpose of the freezer in that room?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, serology deals exclusively with body fluids and
they are biologicals, as mentioned earlier, that needs to be stored in
such a condition so that they won't degrade, and the best way to do is
to keep it frozen. So while the case is in progress, it may be quite a
while from beginning to end that that evidence is within the laboratory,
and we want to have freezer storage immediately accessible to the
criminalists that work in that unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* How does the evidence get from the evidence control unit
into serology so that a criminalist can start working on it?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, at some point a request is made by a detective to
do an analysis. They take the--the criminalist receives the request,
takes it over to the evidence control unit and in the lobby hands this
request to one of our property officers, and the property officer looks
in the computer to find out where the locations are for the evidence,
retrieves it from the freezer, the refrigerator rotomats or wherever
else it happens to be located. It is then released to the criminalist
who has, like I mentioned, these bar codes. The evidence packages are
bar coded or scanned. The Criminalist's bar code is scanned. Then they
carry it back to the unit where they work, use serology as an example,
back in the serology unit. Then the criminalist is supposed to scan
again, now that it is in the serology unit, scan the packages, scan
their i.d. So that the evidence tracking computer knows where it is at
at that moment.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And while you were working on the evidence in this case,
where was it stored?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was all stored--all the biological items that I
worked on was stored in the serology freezer.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In the serology--the freezer in the serology lab?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to getting into the serology lab, what
is required there in terms of access?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, the door into the serology lab, which is located
in the top part of the room here that is marked "Serology 25,"
(Indicating) is a card access door just like I described before. Anybody
wanting to go through that door has to display their card--their access
card to the area where the antenna is in the wall, and if they have
access to that room that time of day, that day of the week, you will
hear the door unlock and you can walk through it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And who has access to serology?

*MR. MATHESON:* All the criminalists do during normal working hours. Any
one of them can get into that area. The student worker that works for
serology and trace can get into that area during normal working hours.
And we have a photographer and some latent print experts that work in
our laboratory, they also have access to it during normal working hours.
Off watch and on weekend the serology criminalists are the ones who have
access to it; the other criminalists do not, along with management.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So if someone wants to work on evidence on the weekend,
who can get into serology to work on evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* The criminalists that work that unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what about access by police officers to serology?
How does that work?

*MR. MATHESON:* For a police officer to get into that unit they would
have to be escorted by somebody that has access to it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, let's take a look at the instrument lab just quickly.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is this part of the laboratory?

*MR. MATHESON:* This photograph depicts an area of the instrument
laboratory, which is room no. 21 located actually on this diagram below
serology. The photograph is being taken about where this blue diagram
here, (Indicating), is looking toward the right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you do any of your work in this case in the
instrument lab?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And let's take a quick look at the SID Parker Center
amplification room. We discussed that briefly.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you do any of your work in the SID Parker Center
amplification room?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And let's take a quick look at the Parker Center
preparation room. And did you do any of your work in this room?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I did not.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson, in 1994 approximately how many
cases did the serology laboratory process?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I would have to refer to some notes I made of those
statistics.

*THE COURT:* Is this that same sheet you were referring to earlier or
different?

*MR. MATHESON:* I will have to look.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, do you want to see that.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Can I be provided with a copy of this, please?

*THE COURT:* Sure. Do you need it now, Mr. Blasier, or at the conclusion
of the Court day?

*MR. BLASIER:* At the end of the Court day.

*THE COURT:* Just remind me to do that.

*MR. MATHESON:* That particular sheet doesn't have the data as far as
that goes.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Matheson, why don't you mark that with a
post-it.

*MR. MATHESON:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, at the moment I can't locate the page that I had
that information on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe you can just give us an approximation.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* I would say conservatively we did between four and 500
cases.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how does that break down just roughly in terms of
the type of cases? Are they rape cases or homicide cases?

*MR. MATHESON:* They are split pretty closely 50-50. We do a lot of both.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what percentage of the homicide cases in Los
Angeles--well, how many homicide cases in Los Angeles did the crime
laboratory criminalists respond to for purposes of crime scene
identification?

*THE COURT:* For what time?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In `94.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you have that statistic?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe we did in the low two hundreds was the total
number of cases that we responded to.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what percentage of the total number of homicides do
you respond to?

*MR. MATHESON:* Oh, it would be approximately in the area of ten to
twenty percent.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And who was doing the crime scene investigation on the
other eighty to ninety percent?

*MR. MATHESON:* The detective.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you remove some stains or collect some stains
from a console that was in the serology laboratory for this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And perhaps we could see People's 172 for identification.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Ask you to step down for a second, Mr. Matheson.

*THE COURT:* All right. People's 172 which is a board that was
previously described as the Bronco evidence. Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, directing your attention to the photograph that has
the call-out lines 303, 304 and 305 on it, do you recognize what is
depicted there?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is a--what has been described as a console that was
removed from the Bronco.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you remove some stains from that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which stain numbers?

*MR. MATHESON:* 303, 304 and 305.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does the call-out line depict the approximate location
that those stains would be oriented on the console?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you saw the console, where was it?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, vague as to time.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* It was in the serology laboratory at the crime lab.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What date was this?

*MR. MATHESON:* On--

*MR. GOLDBERG:* When you removed the stains?

*MR. MATHESON:* On September 1st, 1994.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was anyone else present?

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I'm sorry. We object to this line of
questioning based on chain of custody, arguments we've already made.

*THE COURT:* All right. Noted. Overruled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was anyone else present?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Who was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe that a--I know that a Mr. Ragle was present
and Mark Taylor and there were a number of other people, including
members of the Defense team that were present. I don't have the list in
front of me right now.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when you removed those items from the console, 303,
304 and 305, how did you do it? Using what technique?

*MR. MATHESON:* The same technique that was demonstrated by ms. Mazzola
in the videotape and on the board, dampening a small cotton swatch with
distilled water, applying it to the stain, allowing it to absorb onto
the swatch and then placing it in a plastic bag for, you know, later
drying and following that with a control.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, on this particular item, the console, did you see
anything--any marks or indication that it had been swatched previously?

*MR. MATHESON:* There were two of the three years that I had--that I
collected items off of that appeared to have already been sampled.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which areas were those?

*MR. MATHESON:* That would be the ones that are marked 303 and 304.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And do those correspond to any photographs that we have
on this diagram, the Bronco?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which ones?

*MR. MATHESON:* That would--they--the area that I collected evidence as
303 is roughly the same area as marked in the upper right-hand
photograph as item 30, and the area where I collected 304 is in the same
area as what was marked as 31.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What evidence did you see that indicated previously that
they had previously been swatched?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, you could see where a portion of the blood
appeared to have been removed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* In terms of what?

*MR. MATHESON:* (No audible response.)

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I mean, was there no blood there or was it spread
around? What did it look like?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. What did it look like?

*MR. MATHESON:* Just looked like a portion had been removed. There was a
lighter area that is consistent with how I have seen stains after I have
removed blood from them.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, when you remove a stain from an object like this,
is it totally gone as if it had been cleaned or is there something still
left afterwards?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally there is a little bit still left.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So there was a portion that you said was lighter,
as if parts of that stain had been removed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And did you remove portions of the stains in
the areas that were in the vicinity of 31 and 30?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you do with those items after you removed them?

*MR. MATHESON:* Eventually they were opened up, allowed to air dry,
packaged in bindles and coin envelopes and booked into our evidence
control unit.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Were they booked in a sealed condition?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I wanted to show you People's 200 for identification.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, when criminalists go out to a crime scene, you said
that they make a vehicle search--excuse me--a crime scene identification
checklist?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when they go out to a vehicle search, there is a
form that is used for that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the form indicate the date and time that they
see certain items?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is supposed to.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And have you seen a--let me show you People's 200 for
identification.

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that a vehicle identification search pertaining to
the Bronco?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does it indicate that the--what date the console was
removed from the Bronco?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* August 26, 1994.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, after it was removed from the Bronco and brought to
SID, do you know where it was stored?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Where was it stored?

*MR. MATHESON:* In the serology unit. We have had a large layout table
that is in the middle of the room and most of the items were sitting on
that table.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Thank you. You can resume the witness stand.

*MR. MATHESON:* (Witness complies.)

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Actually, you don't have to move--well, we will
probably be using that again in about five minutes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Sir, directing your attention to the date of October the
30th of 1994, did you take some cuttings from an item of evidence, no. 81?

*MR. MATHESON:* Okay. I'm referring to a serology case summary sheet
blood analysis that indicates that, yes, on October 30, `94, I did
remove some cuttings.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, may I--

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, do you have that?

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm not sure what he is referring to.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you show that to him.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Maybe you can just give us the "L" number if it is on there.

*MR. MATHESON:* "L" number 408.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Blasier, do you have that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Your Honor, I wanted to mark as next in order "L" number
409 as People's 209--I'm sorry, 208.

/(Peo's 208 for id = document)/

//*THE COURT:* This is a single page, Mr. Goldberg?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes, it is, your Honor.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And sir, did the shirt bear the DR number, the packaging
the shirt was contained in, bear the DR number in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can you tell us what the DR number is?

*MR. MATHESON:* 94-0817431.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm going to put 409 up on the elmo in a second. You may
want to look at it on your notes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Showing you the page that is entitled "Serology item
description notes," People's 408--208 in this case, do you recognize that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What is it?

*MR. MATHESON:* It is a page that is called "Serology item description
notes." it is where I made notes and a sketch indicating the areas where
I sampled item no. 81, a shirt.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And on these--how are these serology item description
notes used in the ordinary course of the crime lab's business?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally they are used in conjunction with what's called
a summary sheet. The summary sheet does that, it just summarizes the
information that is found for a particular item. Attached to that would
be a serology item description notes which allows a more complete
description of the item that you are working with.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And in this particular case what does your sketch indicate?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, it shows a very rough rendition of a shirt with
the letters a through h indicating areas where I made small cuttings of
sample removal and a circled area marked "Control" where I removed a
control sample.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* After you removed those items, cut those items, what did
you do with them?

*MR. MATHESON:* I placed them into individual bindles and then into a
small manila coin envelope placing them in the serology freezer.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, were those sealed?

*MR. MATHESON:* No, I don't believe so.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, did you also review the documents in this case,
including the serology item description notes, to determine when various
items were mailed out and transmitted to outside laboratories?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I have.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. I would like to direct your attention to the
series of charts that we have labeled as People's 177 for identification.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, showing you People's 177, the board that
contains items 6 through 24, do you recognize that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you have the opportunity to review this exhibit
prior to your testimony today?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you have the opportunity to check it against various
items of--various reports that are maintained in the ordinary course of
the crime lab's business?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, you already mentioned the serology item description
notes. Did you review serology item description notes in
conjunction--let me ask you this: What document did you look at
specifically in checking these boards?

*MR. MATHESON:* I looked at a large--large quantity of documents, both
what we have described as serology item description notes, also some
cover letters, transmittal letters, and analyzed evidence reports
indicating where things had gone and when, documents of that type that
are all prepared during the course of these samples being prepared and
submitted to outside agencies.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, generally speaking, when you are going to send the
sample to an outside agency, can you describe what kind of documentation
you go through in doing that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, when we need to send an evidence item out to
another agency or a company to do work that we don't do ourselves, what
is first done is a request to evaluate. We do it in the area of DNA
analysis, request to evaluate DNA evaluation on that item, and that is a
form in and of itself that gives the item numbers, describes the
condition of the item, whether or not the person that is doing the
evaluation thinks that there is sufficient evidence to send out or not.
Ultimately then where it goes, which laboratory, the date that it went,
how much is remaining of that item within our laboratory. There is also
associated with that these item description notes, like I previously
described, to give a more definitive explanation of what the evidence
actually looked like, rather than just of a brief red stain or something
along that line. Also prepared along with that is what is called an
analyzed evidence report that just is that these items were sent to such
and such a laboratory on a certain date which is then part of our
permanent file, just like an analyzed evidence report as if we had done
the work, letting the detective and the D.A.'s know, or whoever, that
something had gone out for analysis on this date for this laboratory.
And there is also then a cover letter that is prepared to the laboratory
that is being sent to which describes the items that are being sent to
them, giving them a very limited information about what the case is
involved and who to contact in case they have any questions.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you also use something called a serology case summary
sheet for this?

*MR. MATHESON:* The serology case summary sheets tend to be more toward
analysis of the items; however, occasionally we will grab a form just to
have something to write on as far as that has lines.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And are all these standard forms that are used in the
crime lab's business?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And will the analyst then use these documents, such as
the serology item description notes--

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm going to object, lack of foundation or vague as to
"Crime lab business."

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Are all of these documents ones that are used in the
ordinary course of shipping items out when the crime lab does that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, they are.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to the usage, for example, of the
serology item description notes, if the analyst is preparing the items
to go out and packaging them, does--when does he fill out that document
in relationship to the preparation and packaging of the items?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is the document that is prepared while the evidence
is actually sitting in front of him.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, does this exhibit, People's 177, essentially
compile or does it compile information from all of these various
documents and just summarize them in one place?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And how voluminous were the documents that are
represented here that are compiled in 177?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, this, along with a couple other charts, filled
about a two-inch binder.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now, directing your attention to item no. 6, just
to start with an example, we don't have to go through each and every one
of these, when you were verifying the information in item no. 6, what
did you look at?

*MR. MATHESON:* The piece of information there of interest for myself
was regarding the trip to DOJ--well, starting at the beginning, as far
as the property report goes, these items were in fact collected on June
13th and that was confirmed by a property report.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. So the information in the left-hand column
generally comes from a property report?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, because that is the document we use when things are
collected.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you take a look at the photograph in cell no. 6
under "Collected LAPD" to see whether you recognized the writing and the
DR number?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And to verify that that was one of the items in this case?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, what does "Cellmark" mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* Cellmark is the name of a company located on the east
coast that we use for our RFLP type DNA analysis.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Is that someone that you have used in a number of past
cases?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what does "DOJ" mean?

*MR. MATHESON:* DOJ stands for Department of Justice. In this particular
case it is the California Department of Justice Bureau of Forensic
Sciences Lab in Berkeley, California.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So that is part of the State of California?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you verify that according to the records an
envelope containing swatches from no. 6 was sent on the 12th of August?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you also look at the photograph?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you look at the photograph for?

*MR. MATHESON:* I wanted to confirm that one of those eight coin
envelopes that are depicted there was in fact the coin envelope that was
used to transport item no. 6.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did it have the item number and the DR number?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that typically how you would do it if you were
sending less than the entire number of swatches? Would you put it in a
different coin envelope to send it out?

*MR. MATHESON:* Normally in the process when the samples are being
prepared to be sent to an outside laboratory, if we don't send all of
the evidence, a portion or a cutting of it is taken from the original
bindle and envelope and a new bindle and envelope is prepared which is
then sent back to cellmark.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And that would be sent in a sealed condition?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, there is a little icon under 12--8/12/94 and the
legend says "Swatch" with an "Es swatches." what does that icon represent?

*MR. MATHESON:* That is to indicate in the case of item no. 6 all that
was sent was one of the stained swatches, no control.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you verify the correctness of this icon?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So in this particular case swatches containing
presumably blood were sent but a control was not sent?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And FBI, what is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* "FBI" stands for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, in terms of this verification procedure that you
testified to, did you look at the other items on this board and go
through the same verification procedure of checking the documents and
also the packages?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And was the information on this board correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to item no. 17, it says--it is what
appears to be a reference vial. Can you take a closer look at that for a
second.

*MR. MATHESON:* (Witness complies.) that's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was that the reference vial that you did some testing on?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you check the records to determine whether
according to the records another item of evidence, entitled "O.J.
Simpson blood exemplar" was created from that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. BLASIER:* No foundation.

*THE COURT:* The jury is to disregard.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you check a record to verify what says "O.J. Simpson
blood exemplar"?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What did you look at?

*MR. MATHESON:* Some notes that was prepared by Mr. Yamauchi during the
course of sampling the exemplars. It is our habit to try and get
portions of a liquid blood when we receive it onto what are called
swatch cards so it can then dry out and be frozen rather than just
stored refrigerated in the blood vial.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the analyst generate one of these records that
you have described contemporaneously with doing that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you check that record to verify this entry?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, the little card that is represented there, the
white thing, what is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, that is the exterior of one--they are commercial
swatching cards that we have. If you open that up, there is four black
circles, approximately an inch in diameter. Portions of the blood or
pipette are delivered to each of those four spots and allowed to dry.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to item no. 13, for example, did you
take a look at the picture of the exterior packaging to see whether the
item number and the DR number was represented?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And did you also check the records to see that
that was sent out on September 26, `94?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So with respect to item 23, for example, that would have
been sent out on September the 14th of `94?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But with respect to that item, did you verify that both
swatches and a control was sent?

*MR. MATHESON:* Per the records, yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Thank you. Let's see the next one.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, I have an objection to another board. Could
we briefly approach while they are finding it?

*THE COURT:* Yes, with the Court reporter, please

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Mr. Simpson wants to see these. As they are going
through them he wants some way of seeing them. Can you put them on his
monitor? I know you are watching it on Court T.V. I think. I think he
has a right to--

*THE COURT:* Well, I will tell you what. Let's do this. Let's put them
where we normally put them against the wall there for the jury to see.

*MR. COCHRAN:* We can stay in our seats, too. Unless he can walk over
with me and stay awake.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, Mr. Cochran has complained about the highly
exciting and stimulating nature of this portion of the direct
examination, but if counsel wishes to stipulate, I will be more than
happy to do that.

*THE COURT:* No. Let's put the easel over--

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough, do you want to join us, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We need to angle the easel so that Mr. Simpson
can see the exhibit. He would like to see these things. So can you put
it back in the standard position and let's see how much we can get out
of that.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* What I can do is raise it up so that if I position it
I can raise the easel up but he might miss the bottom portion from where
he is sitting, but he should be able to catch most of it from the top.

*THE COURT:* Let's try that.

/(The following proceedings were held in open Court:)/

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Juror no. 1, is that too extreme for you to
see? Well, we are sort of defeating our purpose here. Let's put it back
at a straight ninety degree and then we will proceed at that point. We
may have to move some of those exhibits from out back there so we can
get a little more depth here. All right. Mr. Goldberg.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I only have about two minutes of questions on this one.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I now direct your attention to the board that has 25
through 44 on it. Did you go through this same verification procedure on
this board that you had previously discussed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And was the information contained on that board
true and correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it was.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I see Mr. Fairtlough has disappeared.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, are you ready to proceed to the
next chart?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Fairtlough, rather than move all those right
now, we will do that later. Let's move on to the next chart.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, this is the one that has items 45 through 57. Mr.
Matheson, on this particular chart did you notice something in reviewing
it that you wanted changed?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, could we have the exhibit number?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, these are all 177.

*THE COURT:* 177, this is items--we have it marked by items, item numbers.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* We may have put a letter. It may be c.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* But it has 45 through 57.

*THE COURT:* Noted. Thank you. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Which was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That was in the case of item no. 51 under "DOJ 9/26/94,"
the icons for swatch and control had been omitted.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* We have some icons here. Maybe with the Court's
permission we could just put them on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is as to 9/26/94?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*THE COURT:* Which item was this?

*MR. MATHESON:* Item no. 51.

*THE COURT:* 51. All right.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* So a stain and control icon?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* While he is doing that maybe I--well, I will just wait.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Other than that, Mr. Matheson, did this board
correctly state the information that was contained in the business
record that you have previously described?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Thanks. Let's go on to d.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* And Mr. Goldberg, these are which items?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* 177, I believe this should be d, and this is item 59
through 82.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to item no. 59, Mr. Matheson, did you
also take a look at some documents, as you previously testified when we
were asking you about item 17, in order to verify the creation of the
Fitzco card under "Nicole Brown blood exemplar," if you understood that
question?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Did you do that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when did it indicate that the swatches were made
from item no. 59?

*MR. MATHESON:* On June.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What documents did you look at?

*MR. MATHESON:* It was the same document mentioned before, prepared by
Mr. Yamauchi, describing the swatching of the items.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is prepared in the same way that you previously
testified when I was asking you about 17?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when did that document indicate that the swatches
were prepared from 59?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, improper foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, this is done in the ordinary course of business?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is the document that you looked at prepared
contemporaneously with the swatching?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. This is a standard form that is used in the lab?

*MR. MATHESON:* Well, we don't have a standard form to just--just to
describe the production of these swatches. He used one of the ones I
mentioned earlier as a note page.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. But are those items that you use, the analysts use
to describe what they are doing and when they are creating a particular
piece of evidence?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And when did that indicate that the Nicole Simpson blood
exemplar was created?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* May we approach?

*THE COURT:* No. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Counsel hasn't specified what element he is saying is
missing.

*THE COURT:* He doesn't have to. It is missing. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. You looked at a document; is that correct?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And that document was prepared by who?

*MR. MATHESON:* Mr. Yamauchi.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And this is a document that is prepared at or near the
time that the swatch is created?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And this is a document that is used by serologists when
they are preparing swatches?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did you check that document against the item that is
referenced as the Nicole Simpson blood exemplar?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did it reflect--does this accurately reflect the
information on that document?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. And when did it indicate that that swatch was
created.

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. We are missing item d, counsel.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What?

*THE COURT:* We are missing item d.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, is this done in a manner that is trustworthy?

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Calls for a conclusion. He has to describe the
manner in which it is repaired.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* He just did that.

*THE COURT:* That indicates its trustworthiness.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Mr. Matheson, when does the analyst actually write down
the information?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* As they are performing the work they are preparing note
pages describing the actions that were taken.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what do they describe?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That swatches were prepared of particular items on a
particular date.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what did that--when did that item--when was that
item prepared, according to this document?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Overruled at this point.

*MR. MATHESON:* June 15, 1994.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. Now did you go through the same process with
respect to the Ronald Goldman blood exemplar?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is the information contained there accurate?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Do you want to go through this all over again?

*THE COURT:* There is an objection, counsel. It is your burden. Proceed.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* What document.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What type of document did you look at in order to verify
the information under "Ronald Goldman blood exemplar"?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it was an item description note.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was that the same type that you just testified to when
you were talking about 59?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe it was the exact same document.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. And what did that document indicate in terms of
when the swatch entitled "Ronald Goldman blood exemplar" was created?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* That it was prepared on June 15, 1994.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And did it come--did the swatch come from the vial no. 60?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* According to the document?

*MR. BLASIER:* Objection based on hearsay and no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Overruled.

*MR. MATHESON:* According to the document the swatch was made from the
whole blood vial.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that the same answer that you give with respect
to the Nicole Simpson blood exemplar?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Does this board accurately indicate when items from the
swatches were mailed out and to whom?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to item no. 81, did you look at the
photograph in the cell under "Collected LAPD" to determine whether you
could recognize the packaging?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And is that the shirt from which you took certain
cuttings that you testified to earlier this afternoon?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, that's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Where are those indicated on this board?

*MR. MATHESON:* The cuttings that I made are indicated in the next cell
down opposite 81-a through h cuttings.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And where says "October 30, `94, Greg Matheson"?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So that is when you took cuttings from item 81?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the cell under "DOJ" that says "1/13/95"
indicate when that was mailed out?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, with respect to item no. 82, what is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* When samples are collected from the Coroner's office
they prepare both a liquid sample and a swatch of blood. That is the
outside packaging or the envelope that contains the swatch that was
prepared at the Coroner's office marked as Nicole Brown's reference.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So that is not done, that particular swatch is not done
by SID, it is done by the Coroner's people?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And does the cell under "DOJ" under "9/7/94" indicate
when that was sent out?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you. Let's take a look at the next board. This is
the final.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Now, Mr. Matheson on this board did you also find
something that you wanted to change?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was that?

*MR. MATHESON:* That on this cell next to where it says "293, fibers and
control," it has a date of "8/26/94" and then "Matheson" as to when that
was collected and the actual date on that was 9/1/94.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Was this an item that also came from this object in the
Bronco that was collected from the Bronco?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct. The item was not in the Bronco when I
did my collection.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* What was it that you took it from?

*MR. MATHESON:* I believe that was a section of the floorboard or floor
carpeting.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Okay. That had been collected by someone else?

*MR. MATHESON:* The carpeting had, that's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Right. And what did you do? What technique did you use
to collect 293?

*MR. MATHESON:* Just cut portions of the fibers away from the carpeting
and placing them in a bindle, closing the bindle up and then making a
control cutting and placing that in another bindle and putting it in a
coin envelope.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So this was not the cloth swatch technique?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And the control was a cloth swatch or just another piece
of carpet?

*MR. MATHESON:* It would be more cuttings of fibers.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So where did you cut from in order to get the control?

*MR. MATHESON:* Nearer to the stain but in an area that did not appear
to be stained.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* All right. Now, with respect to item no. 84 and 85,
let's start from 80--with 84. Do you recognize what is depicted in that
item?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And what is that?

*MR. MATHESON:* Item no. 84 is a L.A. County Coroner's envelope used to
store collected fingernail scrapings or fingernail clippings and/or
scrapings.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Did you do some testing on 84?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* So this was something that was not collected by SID people?

*MR. MATHESON:* That's correct.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And with respect to the other items on this chart--and
this chart contains 84 through 305 for the record--did you verify the
correctness of the information contained on this chart?

*MR. MATHESON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* And perhaps with the Court's permission later on we
could change the 8/26 date to 9/1?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Thank you.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Next I would like to mark another exhibit that is
entitled "Additional LAPD evidence disposition" board as 209.

/(Peo's 209 for id = posterboard)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* Okay. May we approach?

*THE COURT:* Yes, please. Tell you what, ladies and gentlemen, I need
to--why don't you turn that around, Mr. Fairtlough. All right. All
right. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to need to talk to counsel about
this next exhibit. Probably take us more than five minutes, so I'm going
to call it quits as far as you are concerned for the day. I have a few
other matters I need to talk to the lawyers about. Please remember all
of my admonitions. Do not discuss the case among yourselves, don't form
any opinions about the case, don't conduct any deliberations until the
matter has been submitted to you, do not allow anybody to communicate
with you with regard to the case. And we will see you tomorrow morning
at nine o'clock. All right. As far as the jury is concerned, we will
stand in recess. And Mr. Matheson, you may step down. You are ordered to
return 8:45 tomorrow morning.

*MR. MATHESON:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* All right. I will see counsel as soon as the jury has cleared.

/(At 4:25 P.M. the jury was excused and the following proceedings were
held in open Court:)/

//*THE COURT:* The record should reflect that the jurors have withdrawn
from the courtroom. Mr. Fairtlough, can you swing the easel around there
so that we can all see the next board.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* And Mr. Goldberg, how many of these do we have?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* One.

*THE COURT:* This is it?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah. These are only--these are what I called the round
trip items.

*THE COURT:* The round trip?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Items that came back and then went out again, so they
had to be put on a separate board.

*THE COURT:* All right. Are there any other items similar to this that
we need to talk about?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* You mean boards? No.

*MR. BLASIER:* There is one other board.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I didn't know counsel had any objection to this because
I think we have had it down here for awhile, and I thought we had an
agreement that we were supposed to know so we could make modifications.

*THE COURT:* This raises that issue.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I understand what the issue is, but we sometimes come on
with patches if we think there is a problem.

*THE COURT:* The point of my question to you, Mr. Goldberg, are there
any other exhibits that you have not previously shown to the Court and
Defense counsel that you intend on using tomorrow?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I don't think so, because I think I have shown all of
them. Let me just check.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* They have everything. I'm going to also use the
analyzed evidence report that is l-371 that was used in Mr. Cochran's
opening statement. That is on laser and it has certain pull-outs on it,
very similar to what he used in his opening statement.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier, you are familiar with that document?

*MR. BLASIER:* I don't know that I have seen that. Has it been used before?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No, except in the opening statement.

*MR. BLASIER:* I would just like a chance to look at that tomorrow morning.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Then I also have--

*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough, do you have the ability to pull that up
right now?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I also have an electrophoresis work sheet that they
have, except it is on laser, and it also has a pull-out on it.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's see them both.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* If you recall from my revised counsel conduct order, this
is what we are going to do everyday at 4:30, look at new exhibits for
the next day.

*MR. BLASIER:* Your Honor, it is my understanding that that order
doesn't apply to impeachment materials.

*THE COURT:* That's correct.

*MR. BLASIER:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Any affirmative stuff that you intend on presenting, I want
to see it at 4:30 the day before so we don't have to stop and start;
affirmative evidence as opposed to impeachment evidence.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well--

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. BLASIER:* I need to clarify that in a moment.

*THE COURT:* Well, let's start with what the Prosecution has.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* There are three sections to it. This is section a.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* This is section b.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* This is section c.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Mr. Blasier, you now recollect having seen these reports?

*MR. BLASIER:* Oh, yes. I had no objection to this.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* I hadn't seen it in the laser form.

*THE COURT:* All right. Next item.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* The next item is the EAP type B.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Apparently that is not on laser.

*MR. BLASIER:* I have no objection to this.

*THE COURT:* All right. What is that, for the record?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* That is electrophoresis work sheet and it has a "B" and
a question mark under item 84-a and 84-b.

*THE COURT:* All right. Is there a "L" number on that?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* It is l-383. I have shown all of these exhibits this
morning, so there is nothing new.

*THE COURT:* All right. And Mr. Blasier, there are no objections to
those other items?

*MR. BLASIER:* No.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's talk about additional LAPD evidence
disposition summary chart, People's 209. I take it, Mr. Blasier, your
objection is to column 2?

*MR. BLASIER:* Correct.

*THE COURT:* What case law are you aware of that precludes the
Prosecution from, in their presentation regarding the integrity of the
evidence, to not put this on? What precludes them from doing that?

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, I think we briefed this before in the motion on the
stipulation. I don't have that at hand, but the--

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* I am just asking do you have any other additional--

*MR. BLASIER:* Nothing additional, no.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* I'm assuming what it is being offered for is just to
establish where the items were during a certain period of time.

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. BLASIER:* And you don't need to go into what happened to the items,
speculate about what might have happened to the items and who had them.
We are willing to stipulate to that. We are not challenging it. I know
we can't make them stipulate to it. And we are not challenging it and it
seems inappropriate that they should be able to go far beyond what
limited probative value this information has.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Well, if the chain of custody were stipulated to, which
would be the normal way things are done--

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Goldberg, you know there is nothing normal here.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I know that, but even if it was partially stipulated to--

*MR. BLASIER:* We will stipulate to it.

*THE COURT:* Hold on.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* If they are going to stipulate that the only portion of
the chain of custody that they are contesting is between the scene and
the evidence processing room, which they have already contested through
Mr. Fung, and then that is it, then a lot of this becomes irrelevant,
but that is apparently not what they are doing. They are I think
contesting almost every portion of the scene, even after the things were
in the laboratory. Between the time that things were at the laboratory
and mailed out they wouldn't even stipulate to laying the foundation on
these boards.

*THE COURT:* All right. My inclination, though, is to say that the
Prosecution is entitled to show that for a period of time these items,
as designated here, were in the possession of representatives of the
Defense, and that is the end of it.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* We are hot going to say--

*THE COURT:* I don't recollect particularly how much was used of any
particular swatch.

*MR. BLASIER:* Well, the problem with that is that opens the whole area
up as to what we did with them and we will have to go into the fact that
we weren't allowed to do anything to them, that we weren't allowed to
perform my testing, that it was just an examination. And it seem to me
we are going to get off on a real long trail here that has very little
impact on what limited value this information has when we are not
contesting it.

*THE COURT:* So how do you propose to do this?

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Blasier.

*MR. BLASIER:* Yes, your Honor. If the information is going to come in
that we had these items, then it needs to also come in that we were not
allowed to do anything to them other than examine them. We were not
allowed to take samples for testing. We were not permitted to do
anything other than physically look at them.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Goldberg, do you have anything else to add
that is beyond the points and authorities submitted regarding the
proposed stipulation?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* No, but I did want to clear--clarify one thing for the
record. The Court said that you were inclined to allow this along with
any evidence as to what happened, and generally speaking, I think that
that is actually what I intended to do with every single item, with the
possible exception of item no. 6, because item no. 6 went out to Albany,
did not have any hair in the bindle, but when it came back it was
photographed. And it does, so however it happened and whoever was
responsible, that bindle became accidentally contaminated which is kind
of interesting because it was still tested and I believe still came out
as clean, it doesn't have any biological evidence on it. Obviously no
one would intentionally contaminate a piece of evidence, but it is sort
of interesting and it would probably be very interesting for these
jurors that it did become contaminated, as the Defense has used that
word, and still there was absolutely no impact on the evidence that was
tested, so I think that it is relevant to bring that out.

*MR. BLASIER:* Actually I'm sorry, that is not accurate. That hair was
there when we got it and we have fully documented that.

*THE COURT:* All right. Well, we'll see. I'm sure it will come out in
front of the jury in some form. All right. I want counsel here, Mr.
Goldberg, Mr. Blasier, I want you gentlemen here at 8:30 and we will
continue the discussion. As I mentioned to you, I am not comfortable
with the state of my research on this particular issue, so I just want
to have a little more time.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Can I just point out one thing?

*THE COURT:* I think we are done with the argument.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Something else about the chart if I could; not a further
argument. But I did want to point out in all of these items the only
reason that we are putting these items went to the Defense, even though
there were many more, is because they went to the Defense between the
time that we received them back and the time that we mailed them out again.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I also wanted for the record to say that we would like
to use some photographs of the socks that have not been previously
marked but which counsel has, and I am going to use this EAP phenotype
block diagram which they have seen probably about a month ago now, but
they may have forgotten that they saw it, so I wanted to put that on the
record.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. BLASIER:* I don't have any problem with that.

*THE COURT:* Counsel, what we are going to do is find some other way to
store all of these because we need a little more working room. Also
counsel have been inviting their witnesses to take the witness stand
prior to the Court coming out. It is for the Court to invite witnesses
to take the witness stand. All right.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I'm sorry, your Honor. Different courts have different
practices.

*THE COURT:* Yeah, yeah.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, one other matter, if I may?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Just timing.

*THE COURT:* That is why we are here at 4:30.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right. There is--just, you know, at this point in time we
still have not had any introduction of the actual results of either the
conventional serological or DNA tests.

*THE COURT:* I suppose that is tomorrow.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I just wanted to bring to the Court's attention right
now, to consider as an additional ground for at this point precluding
that kind of testimony tomorrow morning from Mr. Matheson, is that it is
not just simply a question of foundation testimony from the nurse, the
blood itself hasn't been introduced into evidence. And frankly, I have
looked at the California law and I don't know of any cases, for
instance, which say that it is okay to have a laboratory technician
testify that a certain substance contained cocaine or heroin without
first introducing the drugs that have been seized and I know of no case
law in California that sustains the introduction of test results without
the blood coming into evidence and we would oppose, on an additional
ground, the introduction of any results until the blood it is introduced.

*THE COURT:* All right. Noted. Thank you. All right. See you gentleman
tomorrow. Mr. Blasier, one more thing?

*MR. BLASIER:* One more thing.

*THE COURT:* You yielded the floor to Mr. Neufeld so I assumed that you
were done today.

*MR. BLASIER:* I don't want to run afoul of the Court's order. I have
some slides that I prepared to illustrate points I intended to make with
Mr. Matheson on cross-examination. It was my understanding, because that
was impeachment material, that I don't need to provide that to them now,
but I just to make sure that I'm clear on that.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* They have a very loose definition of "Impeachment
material" and I know we have gone over this over and over again.

*MR. BLASIER:* Not any new original evidence or anything like that.

*THE COURT:* No. What I would require you to do, however, is prior to
the session that you are going to use it, advise the Court and counsel
that you have got it, just in case there are any objections to it,
without--without discussing it with the witness that is involved.

*MR. BLASIER:* That's fine. I will do it after he is done with his direct.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. GOLDBERG:* Also, on many of these items, as the Court knows, we
have very voluminous photographs and so on. I don't bring everything,
but I bring this cart down everyday. That is only a very small fraction.

*THE COURT:* Also, you are going to have the notebooks piled up there on
the second tier below, but sometimes it obscures views.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I tried to do that.

*THE COURT:* Keep it below the level of the rail.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* I may have put that notebook there just a few moments
ago. I'm not sure.

*THE COURT:* Okay. But I'm sure some of your minions upstairs, if they
hear that we are using those other photos, will rush them down here.

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Yeah, but it would be some delay of ten or fifteen
minutes or whatever, depending on how crowded the elevators were at that
time.

*THE COURT:* Well, be prepared. All right. Anything else? All right. We
will stand in recess, 8:30 tomorrow morning, counsel. Thank you.

/(At 4:45 P.M. an adjournment was taken until, Tuesday, May 2, 1995,
8:30 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California, )

Plaintiff, )

vs. ) no. Ba097211 )

Orenthal James Simpson, )

Defendant. )

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Monday, May 1, 1995

Volume 136 Pages 24983 through 25235, inclusive

/(Pages 24956 through 24982, inclusive, sealed)/

//-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_APPEARANCES:_*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*_FOR THE PEOPLE:_* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*_FOR THE DEFENDANT:_*__Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan,
Esquire 2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California
90067 Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire
Shawn Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los
Angeles, California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian,
Esquire Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck,
Esquire Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C.
Thompson, Esquire also present: Jana Winograde, Esquire Steven M. Perry,
Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_I N D E X_*

*__*Index for volume 136 pages 24983 - 25235

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day date session page vol.

Monday May 1, 1995 A.M. 24688 136 P.M. 25080 136

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_LEGEND:_* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Chronological Index* of witnesses

People's Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Matheson, Gregory 136 24998gb (Resumed) 25101gb

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Alphabetical Index* of witnesses

Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Matheson, Gregory 136 24998gb (Resumed) 25101gb

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_EXHIBITS_*

*__People's* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

205 - photograph of 25064 136 A sheet of paper on the ground at the
crime Scene

206 - posterboard 25155 136 Entitled "Sid - photo tour" Scene

207 - 1-page document (Not marked on the record) entitled "Personal
statistics - casework" of Gregory Matheson

208 - 1-page document 25190 136 Entitled "Serology item description notes"

209 - posterboard 25219 136 Entitled "Additional LAPD evidence
disposition Summary"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Defense* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

1126 - analyzed evidence 24985 136 Report dated September 8, 1994, by
Gregory Matheson

