*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1995 9:03 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, counsel. Back on the record in
the Simpson matter. Mr. Simpson is again present before the Court with
his counsel, Mr. Shapiro, Mr. Cochran, Mr. Blasier, Mr. Neufeld, Mr.
Scheck. The People are represented by Mr. Darden and Mr. Harmon. The
jury is not present. Counsel, is there anything we need to take up
before we invite the jurors in?

*MR. SCHECK:* I just want to ask, I spoke to Mr. Harmon about indicating
to us when he was going to introduce frequencies so that instead of
objecting in front of the jury, or just working out the groundrules as
to what this witness can and cannot testify to. Particularly since Dr.
Weir is coming, what databases he is going to be using or not using, I
want to work it out at the side bar.

*THE COURT:* All right. But I take it we are going to go through more
autorads this morning?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor. At best we will get to the statistics
before lunch, so at best--

*THE COURT:* At best. I think at best as well.

*MR. HARMON:* I do, too.

*MR. SCHECK:* One last thing, and that is in a friendly way I would
request that Mr. Harmon not bring up teaching with this witness and his
personal--there were some references--I didn't object to it at the
time--but I thought that those were inappropriate.

*THE COURT:* Not particularly relevant at this point.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think it is vouching and it should be--

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Harmon, I'm going to direct you to let me
know when you move into the statistics part, the analysis part of the
evidence.

*MR. HARMON:* Presenting statistics?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor. Your Honor, I have--I am a little
confused on where we are with 47 and 50 right now because there is some
more foundation I can lay with Mr. Sims and I don't want to violate--it
is kind of fuzzy where we are with it and I would like you to remind me
where we went yesterday so--

*THE COURT:* What do you have left to do? I thought we were doing probes.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, we were, but because I thought it was clear where we
were before yesterday, I--Mr. Sims hasn't carefully described what was
on the bindles when he received them, and I intend to--to have him do
that as a matter of the chain of custody of these items.

*THE COURT:* What was on it when he received it?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* I mean, you know, then--anybody can subtract what is on
there now, so--

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* And I want him--I will be very careful with this, but as a
matter of the chain of custody, I intend to, with the Court's
permission, to elicit what was on--what was on those bindles when he
received them and then I intend to show him the board, 47, 50, and ask
him, not what Mr. Scheck doesn't want me to ask him, but are those the
bindles that he received and leave it at that.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* If he directs him to say which initials were on it when he
received it and puts them away and doesn't do any French pastry or any
schtick, you know, that is what your ruling was.

*THE COURT:* All right. All right. Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* So I can show him the board?

*THE COURT:* You can show him the board.

*MR. HARMON:* Limit it to that?

*THE COURT:* Correct.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* And let me see Mr. Darden and Mr. Cochran without the
court reporter, please.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. All right. Let the record reflect that we have been rejoined by
all the members of our jury panel. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, would you please resume the witness stand.

/Gary Sims, the witness on the stand at the time of the evening
adjournment, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Good morning, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, you are reminded that you are still under oath.
And Mr. Harmon, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*_DIRECT EXAMINATION _*_(R*ESUMED) BY MR. HARMON*_

_**_*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I want to back up to a couple of items,
before we resume, where we ended yesterday. I believe in describing your
evidence processing and how you open things, did you carefully note any
names, initials, any descriptive terms that were on specific items when
you received them and opened them for the first time?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did. I photographed those and I also wrote down what
the information on the envelopes and bindles was.

*MR. HARMON:* So you have photos of the items which show all the
descriptive names and dates and initials?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And you also noted them in your lengthy notes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. HARMON:* If you would, I would like you to refer to your notes, if
you need to, to remember the exact descriptions concerning item 47,
which was one of the drops from the Bundy walkway.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That was one of the early items that we looked at, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And when you first opened and examined and noted the
descriptions that were on both the coin envelopes and the bindles, what
was on them?

*MR. SIMS:* On item no. 47, that was a sealed envelope. The seal had the
name "c. Yamauchi, G8880 8/11/94," and then on the front of the envelope
was "94-0817"--I'm sorry, "94-0817431," the initials "C.Y." and then
"G8880."

*MR. HARMON:* Anything else?

*MR. SIMS:* There was also then--for that particular item there was--it
was circled with a "b" and then "item no. 47".

*MR. HARMON:* Anything else written on either the coin envelope or the
bindle?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I believe that is all--on the coin envelope that would
be it. Now, when you actually get to the bindle--

*MR. HARMON:* Right. Would you--

*MR. SIMS:* --which is inside the sealed envelope--

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. Would you describe what writing you saw on the bindle.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This is now on the bindle which is inside the coin
envelope for item no. 47. It said, "to DOJ, 8/11/94 C.Y. G8880" and on
the back of the bindle it said the sign for number, the symbol for
number "112," which is 112 and it looked like the initials "D.F." and
then "C.Y. G8880."

*MR. HARMON:* Is that it?

*MR. SIMS:* That's it, and then I put my own initials, case number and
date on the bindle.

*MR. HARMON:* What did you put on them?

*MR. SIMS:* I put on--the bindles and the coin envelopes would have my
case number, which is DNA-0040-94, the date that I received it or the
date that I actually examined it in the case of the bindle, and then
also my initials "G.A.S."

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we shift to item 50, one of the other
Bundy walk drops and the same questions. What writing did you see on the
coin envelope and the bindle?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Again there was a sealed envelope. On the seal it said
"c. Yamauchi, G8880, SID, 8/11/94." on the front envelope "94-0817431
C.Y. G8880," and then for this--now, this is item no. 50, it said--there
was an "e" with a circle around it, "item no. 50."

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And you also took a picture of that item?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. HARMON:* And you wrote--did you write the same things on item 50
that you wrote on 47?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I would write our case number, our initials and our
date. The only difference would be that I also put our DNA item numbers
that are different for those two items on those.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Those--the correlation between the LAPD item numbers
and your DNA lab numbers are reflected in your chain of custody records?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Yes, they are.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, we are going to put People's exhibit no. 210
up on the easel there. I would like you to look at photographs that
purport to reflect items 47 and 50. And the only question I want to ask
you, and I would like you to consider when you look at it, is are the
items in the photographs that purport to be 47 and 50 the same items
which you received in the DOJ lab and processed in the way that you've
described? Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* I understand.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* I recognize the items by the writing that I placed on.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, when you say the items, you are referring to
there are two photos in the column labeled "item 47.". Do you
recognize--what do you recognize in the two photos that--one over the
other, in "item 47" column on People's 210 for identification?

*MR. SIMS:* I recognize that--I recognize the initial writing that I
mentioned earlier. For example, the "94-0817431" and "item no. 47" with
the "d" circled around it. I recognize my case number "DNA-0040-94."

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, you are going to have to turn a little more
toward the jury. They are having a hard time hearing you.

*MR. SIMS:* I recognize my case number DNA-0040-94. I recognize the date
and my initials and then our DNA item number in this case, it was DNA 5
and I also recognize the "C.Y. G8880," et cetera.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we shift to item--strike that. When you
seal these packages, do you use a specific color tape?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. We use--for the outside of the items we use a whitish
tape that has red lettering.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's shift to item 50, if you would.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you recognize the items that are in the two photographs
under item 50 on People's 210 for identification?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do. I recognize the writing that I mentioned earlier,
such as 94-08-17431, the no. 50 with the "e" circled, my case number, my
date and my initials and the item number, and then I also see some of
that information again on the bindles. You can see it in one of the photos.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you see item 50 with the same white tape with red
lettering?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The coin envelope I did seal with that. The bindles I
would just use scotch tape because it is much easier to work with.

*MR. HARMON:* You pointed to the top of the photograph in item 50. There
is white tape with red lettering. Is that the tape you sealed it with?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. You can resume your seat.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, at this point I want to mark some more
autorads that relate to some of the exhibits that we showed yesterday.
With respect to yesterday, we marked as People's exhibit 270-A through C
the three autorads from analytical membrane 625. Today I would like to
mark additional autorads for that same membrane AM625 and I will--and
if--to make sense, I would like to start with 270-D and I will describe
the a number for the record so we can keep track of these.

*THE COURT:* All right. That is appropriate.

*MR. HARMON:* There are five additional autorads for AM625. I would like
to have marked as 270-D the autorad labeled A11. As 270-E, the autorad
labeled A24. As 270-F, the autorad labeled A15. And as 270-G, the
autorad labeled A22. As 270-H, the autorad labeled A24.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Peo's 270-D for id = autorad)/

/(Peo's 270-E for id = autorad)/

/(Peo's 270-F for id = autorad)/

/(Peo's 270-G for id = autorad)/

/(Peo's 270-H for id = autorad)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And then additionally, with respect to the membrane that
we were discussing when we broke yesterday, that series was marked 271-A
through C, the first ones that we were in the process of showing, today
I would like to add as 271-D the autorad labeled A19--A18, I'm sorry,
and as 271-E, the autorad labeled A19.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Peo's 271-D for id = autorad)/

/(Peo's 271-E for id = autorad)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* And that was for membrane 626?

*MR. HARMON:* 626.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could we get--we didn't capture the photograph of
A16 when we broke yesterday, which is 271-A, so could we get that back
up on the board.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I'm going to ask you to recreate--

*MR. SCHECK:* To save time, I would stipulate to them putting the arrows
in as we did yesterday.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we do that on the break, set it up on the break and
capture that on the break?

*THE COURT:* Yes, please.

*MR. HARMON:* So we will come back to A16 during the break. Could I have
271-B, which is A17.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, why don't you come back up here and if you
would address your answers to the jury.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, yesterday you had described A16, which
is the autorad for the probe D1S7, and today we have A17 which is the
autorad for D2S44 for the membrane AM626 and could you just describe
again the samples that are up there and we will go through them and I
will have you mark them as best you can.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. Just to reorient you again, in lane 1 this is one of
the ladders, the size standards that we mentioned.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you get a different color for that. That won't show
up really well.

*MR. SIMS:* Is that better?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* Again, this is lane 1. This is the size standard. Lane 2 is
the K562. That is the national standard that we use. Lane 3 is the
quality control, the blind sample. Lane 4 is another size standard. Lane
5 and the next two lanes now I will talk about, these are the reference
bloodstains from Nicole Brown, and then next we have the reference
bloodstain from Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And is it easy to distinguish between Miss Brown and
Mr. Goldman at their--by their reference sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* You don't need a computer to do that?

*MR. SIMS:* No, you don't.

*MR. HARMON:* What conclusions could you reach between the comparison of
the evidence stains G1, G2 and G4 on the glove, no. 9, and the two
reference samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the key on this particular autorad is--is to see that
if you first start with G1--

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* --start with G1, that particular sample and it is hard to
see, but I believe there is a band down in this area, /(Indicating)/. It
is hard to see on the--on this display, but the bands that we see in G1,
there are four bands. I will just go slowly through them; 1, 2, 3 and
then 4 I believe is down there, /(Indicating)/, and that pattern is
composite--that pattern is consistent with a mixture of the samples of
Nicole Brown and also Ronald Goldman. In other words, those four bands
are consistent with that mixture pattern.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What about G2? What did you observe in trying to
compare G2 with any of the reference stains?

*MR. SIMS:* In looking at G2 again one can see four bands, and this gets
pretty subtle and we may later want to look--we may later want to look
at the light box to see it better.

*MR. HARMON:* So you can actually see what you are describing there
better on the light box?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I can.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*MR. SIMS:* But I believe you can still see four bands in this
particular pattern; 1, 2, 3, 4, and what is of interest to me is that
now this--this middle set, these are the two bands in the middle here,
now they are starting to get weaker, but you will notice that the band
up here is still quite strong, /(Indicating)/, and the band out here is
reasonably strong, /(Indicating)/. It is the ones in the middle that are
starting to get weaker. And those bands are consistent with the
pattern--they match the pattern of Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, let's just pause and talk about G1 and G2 and
their relationship to one another. What is your explanation for the fact
that that two-banded pattern appears to be fading and the other two
bands seem to be staying there?

*MR. SIMS:* I think--I think what we are seeing is that the DNA
contribution from one of the individuals is maintaining itself at a
certain level where we are getting less DNA from the second contributor.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that because there is less DNA there?

*MR. SIMS:* I think there is less DNA there from the second contributor,
yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Why don't we move to G4 then and explain how that fits in
with what you just provided us.

*MR. SIMS:* G4 again can--the trend continues in G4. You can see a band
up here, /(Indicating)/. I think you can see a band down there,
/(Indicating)/, and again we will look at these I think on the light box
to see it a little more clearly and now these have almost faded out
entirely.

*MR. HARMON:* When you say "these," you are pointing the arrow to the
two-banded pattern that is consistent with Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Those are the two bands that are--that are consistent
with Nicole Brown. They are fairly close to each other.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And I believe you mentioned this yesterday as the
explanation for why the Defendant's reference blood is not on this gel
and that is because he was excluded as a source of any of these stains
on the basis of PCR typing?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. In other words, we looked at--we did
additional tests prior so we had that information.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And this is glove no. 9?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. From Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* The additional PCR tests were done on DNA that was
extracted from these very stains?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It is the same DNA.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, let's--we are not going--I'm not going to ask
you to mark this one because we have marked the first one for
demonstration purposes. Why don't we move on to a 25 which has been
marked 271-C. Okay. Everything is in the same relative position because
these samples are all from the same gel; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Why don't we just jump over to the reference samples. Can
you easily distinguish between Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman at this
marker which is the D5S110?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This is D5S110.

*MR. HARMON:* You don't need a computer to do that?

*MR. SIMS:* No. One can clearly see the difference in the banding
patterns for Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And as far as the stained glove G1, the no. 9 glove
from Rockingham, what can you say about the pattern that you see there?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again we see this four-banded pattern; 1, 2, 3, four
bands, /(Indicating)/, and again this--at this level the mixture appears
fairly equal. In other words, all the bands are fairly close in intensity.

*MR. HARMON:* On the stain G1?

*MR. SIMS:* On the stain G1. And furthermore, again the four bands are
consistent with a mixture of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman, and I
think you can--

*MR. HARMON:* You can't exclude other possible mixtures as the source of
that four-banded pattern?

*MR. SIMS:* No, not--not just on the basis of this four-banded pattern, no.

*MR. HARMON:* You can't pair up any two of the bands in that four-banded
pattern scientifically; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* That's true. For example, just looking at this G1 pattern,
these two bands, for example, could be from one person and these two
bands could be from a second person. That would just be one example of
the ways a pattern like that could break down.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. But now as you move on to the stains G2 and G4, is
what you see in those stains or on this autorad, does that help you pair
up the banding patterns that you see?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does, and I think this autorad is--is a very good
demonstration of what I was talking about earlier. If you look at the G2
pattern now, you can see two bands, I will stop for a second there,
/(Indicating)/, and there, /(Indicating)/, that are consistent with the
bands seen in Mr. Goldman's pattern and those bands are fairly similar
in intensity to the pattern in G1. You can see the intensities,
comparing the G1 and G2 lanes you can see the intensity for those two
bands are pretty close. But now when I go to these bands that are weaker
in G2, here and here, /(Indicating)/, one can see that those bands are
consistent with Nicole Brown Simpson's profile and it is interesting to
me that they are now weaker. In other words, it appears that those two
bands have gotten weaker while these other two bands have maintained a
fairly similar level of intensity.

*MR. HARMON:* And the other two bands that you refer to are ones that
are--that appear to match Mr. Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they appear to match Mr. Goldman's bands.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't you discuss G4 then in the same context
and what the implications of the pattern that you see there are.

*MR. SIMS:* G4 I think again the trend continues and we are not looking
at a pattern like this. I think it is very informative to look across
those samples because I think you do gain information about
interpretations by studying those patterns and how they check across the
sample. And in G4 again we see bands in this position, /(Indicating)/,
and this position, /(Indicating)/, that visually match the band from Mr.
Goldman. They are of similar intensity now all the way across. Slight
variation there, but it is pretty close, I think you will see, whereas
now those last two bands in G4, the weaker band here, /(Indicating)/,
and the weaker band here, /(Indicating)/, those visually match the bands
of Nicole Brown and they faded out quite a bit. And you can see in this
position, if you look across the band, you can see the fading and I
think here you can see the fading, /(Indicating)/, and the relative
intensities I believe are very informative in this case because now this
tells me that these--the bands in G4 that are in this position,
/(Indicating)/, and this position, /(Indicating)/, tend to be associated
with Mr.--

*MR. HARMON:* So you described from top to bottom the top one and then
the third one down?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, the top one and the third one down, one would tend to
associate those now with Mr. Goldman, whereas the ones in the second and
fourth position, one would now tend to associate with Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And without addressing the PCR test results, which
we will address shortly, in reflecting back to the stain from the glove
no. 9 from Rockingham that was labeled G3 on the previous membrane, what
sorts of conclusions can you draw from your RFLP analysis alone of
stains G1, G2, G3 and G4 from glove no. 9 that was found at Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* The conclusion I would draw was, first of all, that the G3
one that we looked at earlier was--that pattern was consistent only with
Mr. Goldman's banding pattern, and that therefore he could be the source
of that DNA. And then looking at G1, 2 and 4 we can also see Mr.
Goldman's pattern and also I think we can pick out separately that
Nicole Brown Simpson's pattern is there also.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So at this point, based on your RFLP results, on G1,
G2, G3 and G4, you have identified Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman as
possible sources of those stains, either singly as in G3 or in
combination, in a mixture, in G1, G2 and G4?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, you also--and we just had them mark--did a
couple of other probes for this same membrane; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. HARMON:* And were there actually a couple of probes or a couple of
autorads that were produced for this membrane that were not used in your
ultimate opinion?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And why was that?

*MR. SIMS:* There was one probe for which we had a problem with the
hybridization and I rejected the data. I would not use it.

*MR. HARMON:* Did those results tend to exclude what you have already
concluded and described for the jury here?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* A technical problem?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the other autorad?

*MR. SIMS:* The other autorad, as I recall, the locus on that--can I
refer to my notes?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Yes. On the other locus that we mentioned that I haven't
mentioned yet was our D4S139 locus and in that locus the two individuals
tend to share a band or they have a very close band so you don't see
these four-banded pattern in the mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Did those results in any way undermine the conclusions you
have already related to the jury?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We will show the remaining autorads to the jury in a
little bit. Okay. Mr. Sims, why don't you go back up to your seat.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, in reviewing all the tests that were done in
this case, both the RFLP and the PCR and in discussing the results with
your colleagues at the Department of Justice, is it your opinion that
all the tests that were done in this case were performed properly?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*MR. HARMON:* In accordance with the scientific literature?

*MR. SCHECK:* Hearsay, irrelevant, discussions with--

*THE COURT:* Overruled, but why don't you rephrase the question as it is
leading.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, do you have an opinion about--which is based on
the scientific literature, protocols in your lab and whatever user
guides were provided to you, about whether or not the tests were
performed properly and in accord with that information?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to the form of this question with respect to
unnamed literature.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* If he wants to state his opinion, that is fine.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. All of the results that we reported would meet those
criteria.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Your Honor, at this time I would like to--actually
we haven't resolved a couple of the boards, but I can do the Rockingham
board now and then--

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed with that.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we have the Rockingham board.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* 120.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, this is People's 120, this particular board?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, it is, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* That is the Rockingham exterior photo board. And then we
want to display People's exhibit 261 for identification, which Dr.
Cotton has already testified about, the Rockingham result board.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, was one of the stains which the Department of
Justice performed DNA analyses on in this case what was--what has been
described as item no. 6 from the Rockingham trail?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what sorts of tests were performed on item no. 6 by
the Department of Justice?

*MR. SIMS:* On item no. 6, which is from the Rockingham trail, that was
our item number DNA-4, LAPD no. 6, PCR-based tests, DQ-Alpha and D1S80
were performed.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And were similar PCR tests, DQ-Alpha and D1S80
performed on reference samples from the Defendant, Miss Brown and Mr.
Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And would you look at the top of People's 261 for
identification and see if the chart, which describes the reference
sample typing results, if that reflects the typing results of the
Defendant, Miss Brown and Mr. Goldman.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe it does, although I will quickly check the
notes just for accuracy.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Those reflect our results.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And were you successful in obtaining PCR results
from item no. 6 from the Rockingham driveway?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What were those results?

*MR. SIMS:* From the Rockingham driveway?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Item no. 6, the DQ-Alpha type was 1.1, 1.2, the D1S80 type
was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And were those results consistent--

*MR. SCHECK:* Excuse me, your Honor. I have a matter with respect to
D1S80 results. May we approach?

*THE COURT:* All right. With the court reporter, please.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* We are over at the side bar. Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. There has been no foundation whatsoever laid for
D1S80 results with respect to the technology, with respect to its
foundation, with respect in particular to this witness' expertise and
knowledge for reporting these results. The testimony has been that he is
the lead analyst in the case, but the person who performed the D1S80
tests and has the requisite specialized knowledge is Miss Montgomery. So
there has been no explanation and no foundation laid as to the D1S80
system whatsoever through this witness or any other witness, so at this
time it seems to me the wrong witness and there is a lack of foundation
and I object to that result coming in.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, do you think you have an adequate foundation?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, I do. I mean, we could call in the guys that stripped
the membranes, too, and spend the next couple of months doing that. If
you recall, Robin Cotton didn't actually do any of this.

*THE COURT:* No, no, I'm not worried about the comparison. Have you laid
a foundation for Mr. Sims to testify to the D1S80?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, I have. Robin Cotton has explained the technology. We
even discussed DQ-Alpha with him. I could spend half a day discussing
DQ-Alpha generically with him if that is what Mr. Scheck wants.

*THE COURT:* That is not the objection. The objection is to the D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* D1S80 is in the same category. We have explained it
sufficiently for him to describe the results. I will have Renee testify.
I mean, if that is the problem, if they want to hear from Renee--

*THE COURT:* Is Miss Montgomery going to testify?

*MR. HARMON:* Absolutely, absolutely.

*THE COURT:* I will overrule the objection subject to a motion to strike.

*MR. HARMON:* No question.

*MR. SCHECK:* That be made clear that--there is--at the present time
there is no foundation and my concern--

*THE COURT:* I--I understand.

*MR. SCHECK:* But what I'm asking for is an instruction to the jury that
the D1S80 result is being taken subject to connection through the
testimony of another witness because right now there is no foundation.
And what I'm fearful of, if you take a look at the D1S80--

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* --results, they look like RFLP results in the sense that
they have banding--you know, they have marker lanes and bands on them,
but it is a different system with different principles. If the Court
recalls, at the time that this witness testified at the griffin hearing,
this laboratory had not even reported out a D1S80 result, as of August,
so it seems to me that there is a 352 problem in terms of conflating
(sic) the two systems just by their appearances and the foundation of
the two systems is different. And I am afraid by letting it in in this
fashion is a chance of spill-over prejudice. So what I would ask the
Court to do is instruct the jury that the D1S80 result is being taken
now subject to connection, explain what the subject to connection is to
be connected up with another witness; not this witness.

*THE COURT:* All right. The objection is overruled subject to a motion
to strike.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. Mr. Harmon, proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, what were the results that you obtained on your
PCR analysis of the item no. 6, the Rockingham driveway drop?

*MR. SIMS:* This is item no. 6?

*MR. HARMON:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SIMS:* The PCR results were as follows: The DQ-Alpha type was 1.1,
1.2, the D1S80 type was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Those were consistent with Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they were.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you approach People's exhibit 261 and remove the two
covers that reflect those results.

*MR. SIMS:* Do you want me to stand over here?

*MR. HARMON:* Just remove them and let the jury see them. We just want
to make sure they are what you just described for us. Do the PCR results
appear to reflect the results you obtained?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And under the "not excluded" column those are consistent
with Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* Does that mean he is a possible source of those stains?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. HARMON:* We will discuss statistics in a little bit on that. Okay.
You can have a seat again.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I had wanted to discuss the glove and the
socks results and we never finally resolved those boards. I'm sorry, I
hadn't thought of it before we started this morning.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let me ask jury to step back into the jury room
briefly.

/(The jury exits the courtroom and the following proceedings were held
in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Let's have it quiet, please. All the jurors have
withdrawn from the courtroom. Mr. Harmon, which board are we talking about?

*MR. HARMON:* Umm, the boards in question are the glove photo board, no.
9 photo board that we have not yet marked.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* And then the glove results board which have not been marked.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* And there were some--Mr. Scheck had expressed some
concerns about the way we have presented the information there, so can
we start with the glove photo board, put it up there.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. There was going to be used in conjunction with
the results board.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, which we will show you next. It might make sense to
look at them both together since they will be displayed together. Could
you do that for us?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Scheck, any comment?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, it is the same objection we made before and I
think that--I think the difficulty for the Court at this point in time
is that to be consistent in the results that have been made with the
previous boards, if I were in your position, umm, at this point, and in
the interests of moving on, I might be inclined not to be consistent in
the rulings. But the point is, is that these objections were made known
to them a long time ago with the boards and they have done nothing to
conform them. The problem here is the 352 problem and the argumentative
problem that the Court has been dealing with with respect to boards and
has been consistent and very, very strict in the rulings. If you look at
the Rockingham blood result board, what they are trying to indicate here
is that for various different stains, G10, for example, G9, that that is
Mr. Goldman's blood. For G12 that that is Mr. Goldman and Miss Nicole
Brown Simpson's blood, even with respect to the mixtures, umm, they are
making assertions that these are the mixtures of the blood of these
various different individuals, as opposed to--as opposed to, umm, simply
stating that they are markers and markers that have different
frequencies and dramatically different frequencies. Some of these, umm,
results that are reflected in the "g" numbers on the Rockingham glove
result boards, umm, are RFLP test results, umm, which concededly will
have frequencies which are much rarer, dramatically rarer than the
mixture--the--the D1S80 results with respect to Mr. Simpson on the
glove, which is extremely common, and then when the aggregate frequency
comes in with respect to the mixture, necessarily extraordinarily
common. So it seems to me that it gets extremely misleading and it is a
terrible 352 problem. We have tried to be very careful in not, umm,
mixing up people with respect to these results. I pointed out to them
just the other day that it is going to be--umm, the prejudice of the
glove result board, umm, is compounded by the fact that they are giving
"g" numbers. You know, if they want to say, well, we won't mislead the
jury because we are giving statistics and not excluded results on the
result board, umm, it is going to be very hard to link them up because
they are having even different numbers. Now, they knew that this was a
problem, they knew what the Court's rulings had been on the previous
boards. They made absolutely no effort to conform. This has been
pending, you know, really for--umm, ever since we dealt with the first
board with Mr. Clarke. They knew exactly what the problem was, exactly
what the rulings had been, exactly how they should be conformed and they
just didn't bother. And so now the Court is confronted with a situation
where we all want to move on with this testimony, we all want to get
through this. And they think they can, you know, slide it past and the
Court won't be consistent with its rulings and I just urge you to be
consistent in your rulings.

*THE COURT:* So your objection is that the names of the individuals that
are not excluded should be taken off of the Rockingham glove blood
results and that the items number G1 through 13 should remain--excuse
me--G1 through 14 should remain to indicate where on the glove the
samples were taken?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* My turn?

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* Just so I understand your objection.

*MR. SCHECK:* In fact, your solution was better than the one I proposed
the other day, which is not uncommon when it comes to the boards.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I promise you that I will never show one board
without the other board. If I could hinge them together to ensure that
that will never happen, even when I'm not here, I would do that, but our
easel couldn't hold it. Here is the problem. We have the same names over
there that we have here, and if the jury is going to see them all
together, how argumentative is it to have--is it to have the same names
there that we have here? For example, G13, you want, I can uncover G13
and you see it says it is consistent with a mixture of Ronald Goldman,
Nicole Brown and Orenthal Simpson. That is what we have over there. That
is the same mixtures we have on G11. So while it may be devastating to
see the same thing in two places, how can it be prejudicial if I assure
you to the best of my human ability that they will never be seen separately?

*MR. SCHECK:* If the Court--the frequencies are all different, the
statistical significance, even assuming all this comes in, is all
different. The mixture numbers aren't even here. The rarity of these
mixtures and the significance one can draw with them, which is the
essence of understanding DNA evidence, is all different and this board
is purposely designed to say this is whose blood it is and this kind of
mixture form, and that is argumentative with respect to these results.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* They should just get rid of the names.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Should I say something, your Honor? They are going to be
seen together. There is nothing different here. What they are doing is
it is the same whipsaw that forced us to calculate mixtures when
virtually everything is shaded there, and we will do that later, and
I--you heard how we just explained just the RFLP results and what he can
say and what he can't say about it. There--and given the eloquence and
the credentials of Mr. Scheck and Mr. Neufeld, there is no question that
if I overstate the significance of anything, we will be humiliated and
the commentators will have a heyday with us overstepping.

*THE COURT:* Your first mistake is to listen to the commentators.

*MR. HARMON:* I didn't say I did.

*THE COURT:* Much less to--since they don't know what they are talking
about either. All right. Here is the problem, though. We do have various
different results because we have different tests. This board gives the
impression that these are results, not results that--not non-exclusions,
which is what these really are. I agree with you, it will be very
helpful. It is helpful to me to look at this exhibit. It has great
probative value telling me where these samples were taken on the glove.
This is the first time that I can now picture where the samples were
taken and it allows the finder of fact to think more clearly as to how
that blood got where it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we have a "not excluded" patch? Would that help
to--do we have a "not excluded" patch? We have a lot of them so--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* We have a "not excluded" patch. You see, this board
started out with a possible source. Now we can say possible source, but
we can't put it on the board, so we have been forced to put "not
excluded" on the column there, so to get a little symmetry here let's
put "not excluded" on this board.

*THE COURT:* Have you got a non-excluded?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* You know what, if we can--if we can get--I will defer
until after the lunch hour if a "not excluded" patch will suffice on the
top of the board and we--we had "possible source" on it and just got rid
of it because of the anxiety that that created.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Let me see it with a "non-excluded" after the
lunch hour. All right. Let's proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, could--just in--that is not going to solve the
problem with respect to the mixtures and the different probabilities. My
suggestion is that--is the one that the Court raised and could they also
prepare something that, umm, would take this board in conjunction with
the result board which I think would be a far more accurate and not
confusing way. I mean, whereas you would see, in connection with the
result board, exactly which location is referred to in terms of the
different patterns, the "not excluded" and the frequencies, so they
would be linked up, but does not, umm, make the confusing and
argumentative kind of assertions here. So if you could ask for the--I
would ask that they prepare a back-up system of patches just in case.

*THE COURT:* All right. I'm going to direct the Prosecution to prepare a
"not excluded" addition to the Rockingham glove blood results board and
when we mark these for identification purposes they will be to whatever
it is, A and B, so that they are always part of the same exhibit. All
right. That is the order. Let's proceed. Let's have the jury, please.
Take the glove photograph down.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MS. CLARK:* Your Honor, we could take a "not excluded" patch--

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, maybe we could take one off the Rockingham
board right now and put it up and we will make sure that that doesn't
ever get shown to the jury.

*THE COURT:* Is it removable, Mr. Fairtlough?

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Yes, your Honor, it is.

*THE COURT:* Let me see it.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. All right. Proceed, Mr. Harmon.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MS. CLARK:* Your Honor--

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Can we proceed with that as we--

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, at this point I would like to have marked as
People's next in order--

*THE COURT:* 272.

*MR. HARMON:* --272, a photo board showing item no. 9.

*THE COURT:* No, not the photo board. The agreement was after lunch that
was going to be taken care of.

*MR. HARMON:* Oh, I misunderstood. I thought we would do that now.

*THE COURT:* No. That wasn't done. Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And we didn't address the sock board either, which is--

*THE COURT:* Well, move on.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Moving right on to exhibit no. 172, the Bronco photo
board--your Honor, what time does the Court intend to break today?

*THE COURT:* 10:30.

*MR. HARMON:* 10:30. Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* And could we show that in conjunction with the Bronco
results board, which has been marked as exhibit 260.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, while the photo board is being found, did the
Department of Justice perform DNA analysis on LAPD item no. 24, which
was marked as your no. 15?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your department or your laboratory also perform
DNA analysis on item no. 29 from the Bronco steering wheel, which you
marked as DOJ 16?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your department perform DNA analysis on item no.
30, LAPD item no. 30 from the center console of the Bronco, which you
marked as DOJ DNA 17?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your lab perform analyses on item no. 31 from the
Bronco center console, which is your no. 18?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your laboratory perform analyses on item no. 34
from the Bronco driver's sidewall which you marked as item 20?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your department perform DNA analysis on item 293
from the carpet driver's side which you marked as your no. 29?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your department perform DNA testing on item 303
from the center console which you marked as DOJ 52?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Did your department, your laboratory, perform DNA testing
on item 304 from the center console which us marked as DNA 53?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And finally, from the Bronco, did your lab perform
analysis on item 305 from the center console, which you marked as item 30?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's go back to the top then. Item number--I'm
sorry--24, which you marked as DNA 15, what sorts of tests did you
perform on that sample?

*MR. SIMS:* The tests--the test that was performed was DQ-Alpha typing,
PCR DQ-Alpha typing.

*MR. HARMON:* That is the only test you performed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What result did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The type was 1.1, 1.2.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Is that result consistent with the known type of Mr.
Simpson, the Defendant in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you step to the board and remove the covers on item
24, your no. 15. Can you reach it?

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And that reflects DQ-Alpha 1.1, 1.2?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. HARMON:* Was the Defendant excluded as a possible source of that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* No, he was not.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove that column.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And item no. 29, did you perform DNA testing on that
sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* And again when you are saying "me," that is our laboratory.

*MR. HARMON:* The laboratory, sure.

*MR. SIMS:* On item no. 29--I'm sorry--this is--

*MR. HARMON:* Item no. 29, your no. 16?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, yes, okay. That test was the DQ-Alpha test.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were the results?

*MR. SIMS:* The result was that we found mainly what we considered to be
a 1.1, 1.2 with a weaker 4 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove the cover.

*MR. SIMS:*/(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Are the results accurately depicted on 260, the exhibit board?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And let's just talk about--this is one of the samples you
sent extracted DNA to Cellmark from; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And as far as--the only test in common that you and
Cellmark performed, if the chart is correct, is the DQ-Alpha testing; is
that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And you have described a weaker 4. What is the
significance of seeing a 1.1, 1.2 weaker 4?

*MR. SIMS:* With the weaker 4 allele--well, first of all, by my
interpretation, I saw the 1.1, 1.2, which is consistent with the
Defendant's own type, which is 1.1, 1.2. I noted the weaker 4 allele.
And in my interpretation, because there was so little DNA in this
sample, I was hesitant to make much of a conclusion of that weaker 4 as
to who could be the source.

*MR. HARMON:* Is this one of the ones you struggled with in terms of how
to describe the significance or the conclusions of your results?

*MR. SIMS:* Absolutely. It is a difficult interpretation.

*MR. HARMON:* And it is clearly a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what is the significance of the low amount of DNA with
respect to being able to draw a conclusion on this sample alone?

*MR. SIMS:* On this sample alone my concern was with that very low level
of DNA to begin with, and given that it is a mixture, I would be
concerned that we may not detect one of the weaker alleles in a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, when you say there was a low level of DNA to begin
with, you performed some sort of quantitative analysis of the DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. HARMON:* And when you performed that sort of quantitative analysis,
are you--is that a quanitation of the total amount of DNA that is in the
mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* But not the relative contradictions of the different sources?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. In other words, we just knew the total DNA
but we wouldn't know the breakdown of the mixture from that procedure.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And is this one that you actually--it was difficult
for you to describe in terms of what your conclusion was about who was
excluded and who was not excluded?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And is your--I'm going to ask you to describe it to the
best of your ability the way you described your conclusion in your
report. Do you have your report memorized in terms of how you concluded
who was excluded and who was not on this stain?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I don't have it memorized, but I have my report in front
of me.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would it help to just read it over and do the best
you can with that?

*MR. SIMS:* yes. /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* How did you describe your conclusions in terms of
comparing your results with the reference samples in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the main point I made again was that I saw this
particular combination of 1.1, 1.2 as being the major component of
this--of this pattern. And so I--from that I concluded that Mr. Simpson
could not be excluded as a possible source of that sample.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that clear, that that was not--you did not exclude
him on this stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, that is--that is correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Where did you go from there?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, where I went from there was I saw this 4 by itself. I
did not see Mr. Goldman's type in full which was the 1.3, 4, but I was
hesitant to make an absolute exclusion of Mr. Goldman on that basis.

*MR. HARMON:* Why?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, what this kind of result tells me is that this is
probably a good sample for additional testing, which is one reason we
sent it to Cellmark because this information was just limited to my
conclusion of Mr. Goldman. You know, at the same time I want to point
out that I think is--I don't think it is proper for me to stand here and
say, oh, yes, that 4 came from Mr. Goldman. That is not the kind of
point I'm trying to make at all. The point I want to make is that when
you are talking about absolute exclusions we said that we could not make
a clear-cut exclusion of Mr. Goldman on that sample. I'm not suggesting
for one moment that he is the source of that 4.

*MR. HARMON:* So you can't exclude him?

*MR. SIMS:* I could not make what I called a clear-cut exclusion.

*MR. HARMON:* But you are not saying he is included either?

*MR. SIMS:* That is exactly right. I think that would be very prejudicial.

*MR. HARMON:* For that matter, can you tell us how many people could
produce the combination of types that you see in your results?

*MR. SIMS:* With just the major--major type--

*MR. HARMON:* How many people--can you actually put a limit on how many
people total could have contributed to that mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it would be very difficult with interpreting that very
weak 4 and not knowing what else may be there in the components.

*MR. HARMON:* I guess my question is not clear. What is the maximum
number of people that could have contributed the mixed results that you
obtained, you alone obtained on that sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the maximum number, if you start thinking of all the
different possibilities, that would certainly add up. I mean, you could
have two people, for example, that are of the same type to contribute to
a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Let me just give you a general question. Without knowing
the types of this group, could you exclude like the starting line-up of
the L.A. Lakers?

*MR. SIMS:* If I knew their types.

*MR. HARMON:* But just by the number of them?

*MR. SIMS:* No. It would be very difficult to make that kind of
determination, but again, I can only speak to what I see. I can't--

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. Are your results necessarily inconsistent with
Cellmark's conclusion in any way?

*MR. SIMS:* Oh, not at all. For example, if one wanted to say that
Nicole Brown could be there because her 1.1 allele is present and she is
a 1.1, 1.1, then certainly that is a possible combination.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And given the way you've questioned it, do you feel
there is any point to put Mr. Goldman's name in the "not excluded" column?

*MR. SIMS:* I think this is sort of an asterisk situation. I don't feel
comfortable putting him there. I certainly wouldn't feel comfortable
putting him as a possible source. I think that would be incorrect.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move on to item no. 30 from the center
console, no. 17.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did the lab obtain on your analysis of no. 17?

*MR. SIMS:* In that--on that particular sample we did 27 different PCR
systems. We did the--the DQ-Alpha typing and will D1S80 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* What were those results?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were DQ-Alpha, the no. 30, was 1.1, 1.2, the
D1S80 type was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* Were those results consistent with Mr. Simpson, the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove those two covers from item no. 30.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. The board 260 accurately depicts the results that
you just described?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's move to item no. 31 from the center console, your
no. 18. What sort of test did the lab perform on those?

*MR. SIMS:* The lab performed DQ-Alpha and D1S80 tests.

*MR. HARMON:* What were the results?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were as follows: on the DQ-Alpha test we
determined that there was mainly 1.1, 1.2 and we also saw what we
considered to be a weaker application with 1.3 and 4 alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the--how were you able to determine this
stronger-weaker conclusion?

*MR. SIMS:* When one is looking at one of these typing strips, one can
see that there is a stronger contradiction, a stronger dot for
particular types than for some of the other dots, and it is analogous to
the process I was showing you on the RFLP. It is a different typing
system, obviously, but it is the same idea about picking out what
goes--what two alleles might go together because they are stronger and
what two alleles or dots might go together because they are weaker.

*MR. HARMON:* So sometimes you can sort them out by the relative
strengths of these things?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And sometimes you can't?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And would that same general provision apply whether it is
RFLP or PCR?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Why don't you remove the strip covering the results for 31.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* As well as the "not excluded" category.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* So would you describe--you have listed in the "not
excluded" category the Defendant in this case. Why did you include him
in what you saw in the mixture as a result that you saw from item no.
31, the center console?

*MR. SIMS:* We included the Defendant because his types are present in
the sample, 1.1, 1.2 for the DQ-Alpha and also 24, 25 for the D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the weaker 1.3, 4, who is that consistent with?

*MR. SIMS:* That is consistent with Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And let's talk about Mr. Goldman's D1S80 type and
Renee Montgomery will be testifying next and demonstrating some of these
results.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. The jury is to disregard that last comment.

*MR. HARMON:* Sorry.

*MR. HARMON:* Umm, how can you sort out, from looking at the reference
types of Mr. Simpson, the Defendant, and Mr. Goldman, it appears they
have something in common with D1S80; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they do. They both share the 24 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So how can you determine that if you see a 24, 25,
as you did in this case, is there anything about the results that help
you sort out the mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* In some cases there are. There are clear distinctions. It
varies from sample to sample, however.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So let me make sure I understand or we have
explained this--you have explained this to the jury. The results from
31, are they are clearly a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And they are clearly a mixture that is consistent in the
stronger regard on DQ-Alpha with the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And then the weaker 1.3, 1.4 (sic), could that have come
from the Defendant in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* The weaker 1.3, 4 could not have come from the Defendant.

*MR. HARMON:* And it is consistent with Mr. Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's just stop for a second and talk about inheriting
patterns from parents. Is this mixtures stain--could this mixture stain
that we are talking about, item 31, be consistent with an offspring of
the Defendant and Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* No, not--if you look at, for example, the DQ-Alpha types for
the Defendant and also for Nicole Brown, their children would be either
1.1, 1.1 and looking up here now, /(Indicating)/, or 1.1, 1.2.

*MR. HARMON:* And that is because an offspring would have to inherit a
1.1 from Nicole?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And would have to inherit either a 1.1 or a 1.2 from the
Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That is just DQ-Alpha?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And now D1S80?

*MR. SIMS:* With regard--

*MR. HARMON:* What combination of types could an offspring have of the
Defendant and Miss Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again with the idea that one comes from the mother and
one from the father, the D1S80 types for the offspring of Nicole Brown
and the Defendant would be 18, 24 or 18, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So the D1S80 type alone that you obtain from item
31, the console, that alone could not be from an offspring of the
Defendant, Mr. Simpson, and Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And the DQ-Alpha mixture alone could not be consistent
with an offspring of the same two people?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to item no. 34, the driver's sidewall in
the photograph--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* --down at the lower left-hand column, your no. 20. What
sorts of tests did you perform on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* That was just DQ-Alpha typing.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The type was 1.1, 1.2 for no. 34.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove the covers from that one.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* And the possible or the not excluded, who did you not exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* Mr. Simpson, the Defendant.

*MR. HARMON:* And so that result is consistent with him?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* He is a possible source?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, that is the same result that you obtained on item 24,
the instrument panel; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, why didn't you do any more tests on those two items?

*MR. SIMS:* As I recall, there was very limited DNA in those samples.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And taken at face value, given your--what you just
told us about the hereditary nature of those samples, that result could
be consistent with an offspring of the Defendant, Mr. Simpson, and
Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's move on to item no. 293, the carpet on the driver's
side. This is in the photo at the bottom in the middle with the pointer.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* What sort of tests did you perform on that sample?

*MR. SIMS:* We performed DQ-Alpha and D1S80 tests.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were the results of those tests?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were as follows: For DQ-Alpha the type was a
1.1, 1.1. We noted that there was a possible trace of 1.2 present. For
D1S80 the result was 18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And is that--other than the possible trace that
you've described, whom are those results consistent with from among the
three reference types in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you remove the cover on those results and the "not
excluded" column.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Could those--we are going to move that up momentarily.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Do those results, the combination of the DQ-Alpha and
the D1S80 types, could those have come from an offspring, a child of the
Defendant and Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* For the same reasons you've described?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What is this possible trace 1.2 in there? What does that mean?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, when one performs this kind of testing, one can get,
especially with these 1 types, what we call these 1 subtypes, one
sometimes sees very faint dots and you can't always be sure if those
very faint dots are attributable to an actual type or if they may be an
artifact from the typing process.

*MR. HARMON:* So in the context of this case could you say that based on
the total of your PCR results, that Mr. Simpson's type could also be in
there because he is a 1.1, 1.2?

*MR. SIMS:* You could not exclude him on that basis if there was some of
his DNA present; however, we find no evidence of his DNA in the D1S80 type.

*MR. HARMON:* And is the D1S80 test, based on your review of the
literature and your use of these protocols, is that as equally sensitive--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to this witness--

*THE COURT:* Sustained, foundation.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you feel, based on your observations, your review of
the data in this case--I notice we don't have the Defendant's name in
that "not excluded" column--are you saying that it is your opinion that
he could be included in that stain, based on all the results?

*MR. SIMS:* I think there is a possibility of that, although not seeing
his type on the D1S80, I wouldn't have that information.

*MR. SCHECK:* Move to strike the last part of the answer.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* And Mr. Goldman is excluded or not included as the result
of these tests; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* We do not find his type so he is excluded.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And item no. 303, the center console stain, which is
in the lower right-hand photograph on the board, exhibit no. 172, what
sorts of tests did you perform on item 303?

*MR. SIMS:* We performed DQ-Alpha and D1S80 tests on that sample.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were the results of those tests?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were as follows: For the DQ-Alpha, 1--DQ-Alpha
1.1 allele was present, possible 1.2 allele present. 1.3 and 4 alleles
were also present, indicating a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you remove that under "PCR results."

*MR. SIMS:* Would you like me to state the--

*MR. HARMON:* And the D1S80. Sure. I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* The D1S80 results were mainly the 24 and 25 alleles along
with a weaker 18 allele, again indicating a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So clearly it is a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you remove their cover from the PCR results.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* From among the three reference samples that were provided
to you in this case, whom could you not exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* All--all three of the individuals, the three principals, the
two victims and the Defendant, are consistent with being part of that
mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the cover from the "not excluded" column.
Does that mean, at least as far as the three reference samples that were
provided to you in this case, that the Defendant, Mr. Goldman, and Ms.
Brown, were--are possible sources of the stain on 303?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there anything about--just focusing on DQ-Alpha, the
relative intensity of the DQ-Alpha results--that help you sort out the
relative strengths of this things?

*MR. SIMS:* No. On this particular sample with the DQ-Alpha, the
intensities were all very similar.

*MR. HARMON:* So this is one where the relative intensities don't help you?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Unlike the glove RFLP results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And unlike 29, the steering wheel?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Umm, now you are not saying they are the only three people
who could have contributed that mixture, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct, I'm not saying that.

*MR. HARMON:* And without knowing the starting line-up of the San
Antonio Spurs, you can't exclude them as being the possible contributors
of that?

*MR. SCHECK:* Move to strike that and I take a strong exception to
naming certain basketball teams--

*THE COURT:* Speaking--

*MR. SCHECK:* --and not others.

*MR. HARMON:* I will get to the Knicks next.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Can he answer that, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you answer that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I could not exclude the San Antonio spurs.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Just the starting line-up?

*MR. SIMS:* The starting line-up.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to 304, the center console stain, your
no. 53.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What sorts of tests did you perform on those stains?

*MR. SIMS:* Again it was DQ-Alpha and D1S80 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The results are--to make it simple, the results were the
same for three--I'm sorry, for 52 and 53, gave the same results with
DQ-Alpha and D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* So could you remove that cover from that column.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* And the same as far as possible sources?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't you remove that.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* And would you characterize them the same? In other words,
you cannot exclude the three people that are listed in the "not
excluded" column as possible sources of that mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Let me ask you just a general question about 303 and 304.
When you say it is a mixture, are you saying that the types that you see
in 303 and 304 in total are more than you would expect to see from a
drop of blood from the Defendant in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* He could not be the sole source of stain 303 and 304?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And you can't tell us, for example, if these things
were--these different mixtures were deposited on top of one another at
different times?

*MR. SIMS:* I couldn't tell that.

*MR. HARMON:* You can just tell us what was there at the time you tested it?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to 305, the center console, which again
is in that photo in the lower right-hand corner. What test did you
submit stain 305 to?

*MR. SIMS:* That was the DQ-Alpha typing and also the D1S80 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* For that particular sample 305 the DQ-Alpha was 1.1,
possible 1.2 and then weaker 1.3 and 4 alleles, indicating again a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* And then how about D1S80?

*MR. SIMS:* D1S80, mainly 24 and 25 alleles with weaker 18 allele, again
indicating a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, would you--why don't you remove the covers from
that.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Now, how would you compare--it looks like you have
described 305 somewhat differently than 303 and 304; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what can you tell us about why you've described them
differently?

*MR. SIMS:* They were--they were described differently because in this
particular case with 305 one now sees that the 1.3 and the 4 alleles are
weaker than the 1.1 and the possible 1.2.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And you have already described that Mr. Goldman's
type, DQ-Alpha type, is 1.3, 4; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And when--is this somewhat like the RFLP mixtures, when
you can see things stronger and thing weaker than others, that helps you
pair types up?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, leading and no foundation.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* Does it help you pair types up in the DQ-Alpha marker when
you see some dots stronger than others?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And is that the basis for your describing 1.3, 4 as
weaker?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And is it fair--would it be fair to say that 303,
304 and 305 produced consistent results between and among one another?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Overall they are consistent, those three.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there anything inconsistent between or among any of
those three stains?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* No. There is nothing inconsistent other than the weaker 1.3,
4 on 305, but otherwise they are very similar patterns.

*MR. HARMON:* Would this be a good break time, Judge?

*THE COURT:* Yes. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to take our
break for the morning session. Please remember all my admonitions to
you. Don't discuss the case--don't discuss the case among yourselves,
don't form any opinions about the case, don't allow anybody to
communicate with you, don't conduct any deliberations until the matter
has been submitted to you. We will stand in recess for fifteen. And let
me see counsel for both sides, please.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record in the Simpson matter. All
parties are again present. Let's have the jury.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I have "not excluded" tags on both boards.
I've shown Mr. Scheck during the break. I'm just trying to move things
along here, Judge.

*THE COURT:* Do you have anything bigger than that?

*MR. HARMON:* How about if I yell, "it's not excluded, that's all it
means," every time we show this. I wish--

*THE COURT:* Let me see it.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* The big problem, your Honor, is with the glove or with
respect to the mixtures because at this point, there's a serious 352
problem. They're not putting in frequencies, and we all know that the
frequencies are vastly different there. And I think it can be depicted
in a way that makes it very clear to the jury which spot they're talking
about on the result board corresponding to which thing on the glove
without the argumentative kind of statement as to attribution and be
done very clearly if they just eliminate the names.

*THE COURT:* The Court's ruling stands.

*MR. SCHECK:* Which is--I didn't know you made a ruling.

*THE COURT:* Yes. I directed them to put the "not excluded" on both boards.

*MR. HARMON:* So I can use those boards now, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes. Let's have the jurors, please. With the direction it
also be used with the result board.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor. I'll put the result board up first.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Sims, would you resume the witness stand, please. All right. The record
should reflect we've been rejoined by all the members of our jury panel.
Mr. Harmon, you may continue with your direct examination of Mr. Sims.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I want to go back to item no. 6 that you tested
from the stain at Rockingham. Was there a substrate control you tested
along with that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there was. There was a substrate control that was
tested in I believe D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Does it matter in terms of testing the substrate
control for the presence of any biological material on it whether you
test it with the DQ-Alpha marker or the D1S80 marker?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, either test is capable of detecting very low levels of
human DNA. So by that criteria, we didn't detect anything in the
substrate control for that item that would indicate there was some human
contamination.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the same with respect to the Bronco stains that
you tested. I'm not going to put the board back up there, but would you
please describe which of the stains from the Bronco that your lab tested
that also tested substrate controls.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. For those particular samples, wherever we presented a
DQ-Alpha or a D1S80 result, we also tested in that particular system the
substrate control; and in all cases, those were--those were all negative.

*MR. HARMON:* So every item that was on the Bronco result board, which
was exhibit 260, you also tested a substrate control. Is that what
you're saying?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. In each one of the systems that we tested,
whether it be DQ-Alpha and/or D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Fine. Let's move on if you would--

*MR. HARMON:* And I would like to have marked as People's next in order
a board described as "the glove no. 9 results board." and may that be 272?

*THE COURT:* 272.

*MR. HARMON:* The glove results.

*THE COURT:* Yes, and?

*MR. HARMON:* And then 273 for the glove photo board.

*THE COURT:* How about 272-A and b?

*MR. HARMON:* Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot, your Honor. 272-A and 272-B.

/(Peo's 272-A and B for id = boards)/

//*THE COURT:* I think we need it up a little, Mr. Fairtlough.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, have you had a chance to see 272-B, which
is the photo board that has photos of the glove inside and out?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* And are the photos on 272-B, are they actual photos that
you took?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And on 272-B, which is the photo board, there are
numbers G1, G2, G3, et cetera. Do they correspond to your item number?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They are--red lines point to the approximate locations
where I sampled those stains with those designations.

*MR. HARMON:* And actually your item number, the main number that you
assign to the glove from Rockingham was what number?

*MR. SIMS:* That was DNA 13, which is LAPD no. 9.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And then the g numbers are the numbers you assigned
to individual stains that you collected?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And if you'd look at 272-A, the result board, are those
items under the column entitled "Cellmark/DOJ number," the g numbers?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* And all the results that you obtained are represented by
the numbers that are listed there, G1, G2, G3, G4, G9, G10, G11, G12,
G13 and G14?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's step back just for a moment and talk about
your examination of the glove, just for a couple of questions. And if
you would, it probably would be better, step up to the board here, and
if you'd use the long pointer so all the jurors can see.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, right there.

*MR. HARMON:* And let's start with the back of the hand inside photo.
Could you just in numerical order describe what the substance is or what
the material is that those stains were removed from?

*MR. SIMS:* The substance that the stains were removed from is this
material that forms the inside lining of the gloves.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, as far as the stains on the inside of the
glove, did you make any attempt to correlate the location of those
stains to stitching or seams on the outside of the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I noted that the gloves were stitched especially along
the fingers. We don't see it here, but along the back of the hand,
there's stitching and there's also stitching along this thumb area down
here /(Indicating)/. I think there were also some holes in the glove
when I received it. But those are various locations where--the main
thing was the stitching. That's what I was interested in.

*MR. HARMON:* And what if anything is the relationship of the stitching
to where you found stains on the inside of the glove, if you can generalize?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In general, particularly when we're talking about the
fingers and out towards the--it was the finger areas, that's where the
stitching is, and I made the determination that that--that the vast
quantity of blood from the outside could have followed that stitching
sort of waking up into the inside. That was my--what appeared to have
happened to me.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, were you provided a substrate control for any or all
of the stains in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* For the glove. I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* No. The problem with the glove is that there's so much blood
all over it, that it would be very difficult to find an area that didn't
have traces of blood on it.

*MR. HARMON:* And would that be unusual with an item that was as heavily
covered with blood as this glove was on the outside to not have a
substrate control?

*MR. SIMS:* That would not be unusual.

*MR. HARMON:* And does the failure to have a substrate control in the
results that you're going to be describing in a moment, does that in any
way in your opinion undermine the results that you're going to be
presenting?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I don't think so. And I think in particular, with that
sort of situation, what I did was to look at some multiple areas to try
to see if certain types would be reproduced consistently or in different
areas so that it wasn't just a one-shot determination.

*MR. HARMON:* And how might that address the failure to have a substrate
control, testing from diverse areas on the same item?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, by looking at diverse areas and seeing diverse
results, that would give an indication of what the different mixture
patterns, for example, might be.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we--you can have a seat up there.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Why don't we start out from item no. 9, the right-hand
glove from Rockingham. Would you please--

*THE COURT:* We need Mr. Sims, because of his voice, to turn and face
the jury.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* And he also keeps blocking juror no. 7. So why don't you
stand on this side of the--

*MR. HARMON:* So if you'll stand over here.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Would you describe what sort of tests were performed on
G1? I think you've already described generally the RFLP results. We
showed them on AM626. Is that--is that the results that correspond to G1?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. What we saw on G1.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the cover of the RFLP column, please?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, you've already described those RFLP results
as being possibly a mixture; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what PCR results did you obtain from that mixture stain?

*MR. SIMS:* From that mixture stain, the results were that we had
DQ-Alpha and D1S80 results.

*MR. HARMON:* And what--specifically what results did you produce for
the analysis of the stain at G1?

*MR. SIMS:* For DQ-Alpha, 1.1, possible 1.2, 1.3 and four alleles
indicating a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. When you say "indicating a mixture," why is that an
indication of a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Because, again, there were more than two alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove that cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And does that accurately describe what you've just told us?

*MR. SIMS:* It also includes the D1S80 results which I didn't state, but
the--

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What were they?

*MR. SIMS:* 18 and 24 alleles were detected.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And you've described that the RFLP results were
consistent with a mixture of two people, Nicole Brown and Ronald
Goldman. What can you tell us about the PCR results?

*MR. SIMS:* The PCR results would also be consistent with a mixture of
those two individuals.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove under the "not excluded column" the cover
of that?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And is it true that the PCR results in essence do not
exclude Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* As well--as well as a whole bunch of other possibilities?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Moving on to G2, you've already described on AM626, we've
seen three autorads showing RFLP mixture results from that. Is that the
sum total of the RFLP results that you obtained in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Three or how many?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sorry. There were four actually.

*MR. HARMON:* All right. Would you remove the cover of the RFLP result
column for G2 which you've previously described and shown to the jury?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And there's actually one more autorad that shows a
similar result?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That there was a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And the mixture was consistent with whom?

*MR. SIMS:* The mixture was consistent with Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* And what PCR tests did you submit that stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* That was tested for D1S80 and DQ-Alpha.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were as follows for DQ-Alpha*:* 1.1, possible
1.2, 1.3 and four alleles, again indicating a mixture, and D1S80, 18 and
24 alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove the cover for the PCR results for G2?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Does what's described there accurately depict your results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And are those results consistent and corroborative
of the RFLP results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* In what way?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, they're consistent with a mixture of Nicole
Brown and Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Do they help you say anything else?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there are only certain possibilities. Yes. That's all
I can say with regards to those principles--

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Are you saying that Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman
could have produced the mixtures that were seen in G2?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* As well as a number of other possibilities?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Can you remove the "not excluded" column?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, let's just talk about G1 and G2 together for a
moment. Do the known types of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman account
for all of the RFLP and PCR results that you've described so far?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* In other words, there's nothing in there that's foreign or
extraneous to a mixture of those people?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that correct? Okay. G3, you've previously described
your RFLP results; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. HARMON:* And how many actual probes or genetic markers did you test
G3 for?

*MR. SIMS:* I want to just review to make sure I've got that correct.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Eight.

*MR. HARMON:* I'm sorry?

*MR. SIMS:* Eight.

*MR. HARMON:* Eight? And what was your conclusion just based on the RFLP
results?

*MR. SIMS:* Just on the RFLP results?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that--that provided very strong evidence that that was
Ronald Goldman's blood on the glove, the RFLP alone.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you remove the cover there?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We'll come back to what you've described as very
strong evidence in a little bit. Did you perform PCR testing on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* On that particular stain? Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What tests did you submit that stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* DQ-Alpha and D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* For DQ-Alpha, 1.3, 4, possible 1.2 and possible trace of the
1.1 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you remove the cover, and we'll talk about
that, make sure it reflects what you've just told us?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* And again, the D1S80 type is 24, 24.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, you've got possible 1.2 and possible trace 1.1
in there. Can you tell us why you've used those terms to describe what
you saw?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. One of the limitations of the DQ-Alpha typing system is
that the 1.2 allele cannot always be determined in a mixture because
there's no unique probe for that 1.2 allele as that test is performed.
So one has to--by looking at the pattern of dots, one has to make an
inference that it may be there. And if it may be there, then we would
say possible 1.2.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that in all mixtures or just certain mixture of types?

*MR. SIMS:* Just certain mixtures.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Go ahead. Let's talk about the 1.1.

*MR. SIMS:* The 1.1 is also a situation where with this particular
typing system, you can sometimes see a weak signal at the 1.1 dot
because of a phenomenon that's called DX-Alpha. It's a--not to get
overly technical, but one has to know that sometimes you can see a weak
signal at that 1.1 dot even though there's not a 1.1 present.

*MR. HARMON:* Is this phenomenon described in scientific literature?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It's well described in the scientific literature. It's
part of the user guide that comes with the kit, and anybody that's using
this should be aware of that.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, before we talk about the "not excluded" column,
you're not saying that it's possible that Mr. Simpson's blood is in
there, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I would not make that conclusion based on those results.

*MR. HARMON:* Even though there's a possible 1.--or a possible 1.2 and a
possible trace 1.1?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--I--I do not see his D1S80 type there. So I wouldn't
make that inference that--

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Before we undercover the "not excluded," what about
Nicole Brown? What could you say--you're not saying that she's not
excluded as a result of these tests, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* I--again, I don't see her 18 there. So there's no evidence
for there. Is it possible, for example, that she or Mr. Simpson could be
making a very minute contribution to this? Yes, it's possible, but I--

*MR. HARMON:* That's not your opinion?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I see no evidence of that and I don't think that could
be stated.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Move to strike "possibility" from the record.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the "not excluded"?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* So is it your opinion that Mr. Goldman could be--the
strong evidence of Mr. Goldman could be the source of the stain on area G3?

*MR. SCHECK:* Move to strike the term "strong evidence."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We'll move on to G4 then. You've previously
described G4 and shown some autorads on AM626. Do you recall that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And the jury got to see three of the autorads. How many
autorads, genetic marker tests did you actually submit this stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* Umm, one of--at this point, it's probably a good idea to
make a correction. There were four probes originally on G1, G2 and G4.
But as you'll recall, we added the D5 later, which I think is one we
showed. So these are actually now five including G4. Those should all
actually be five.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We'll get a patch sometime during the day for G1, G2
and G4.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* So why don't we talk about, just summarize your
observations about G4. You've described it as a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. With the RFLP.

*MR. HARMON:* And--with the RFLP. What sorts of PCR tests did you
subject G4 to?

*MR. SIMS:* G4 was subjected to DQ-Alpha and DS180 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were your results?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were that for DQ-Alpha, 1.1, possible 1.2, 1.3
and four alleles, mixture indicated.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So clearly it's a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And that--that's corroborative of what you saw with the
RFLP results; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the cover from the PCR results on G4?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, is the result from G4 any different from the result
on G2, the PCR results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, it is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And could you describe what it is that's different about
G4 from G2?

*MR. SIMS:* The clear difference that was seen here /(Indicating)/ was
that for G4, the 18 allele and DS180 was weaker than the 24 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* What's the significance of that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the significance--

*MR. SCHECK:* Move to strike for this witness, objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* I'll withdraw--I'll withdraw the question.

*MR. HARMON:* Anything about the DQ-Alpha results?

*MR. SIMS:* The DQ-Alpha--

*MR. HARMON:* That's different--

*MR. SIMS:* --results were reported in the same fashion. No. They were
reported in the same fashion.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And are your PCR results corroborative of the
mixture that you've already described and demonstrated to the jury from
G4, from glove no. 9 at Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* How?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, the RFLP results and the PCR results are
consistent with the mixture of Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the "not excluded" column?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, you've got Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown listed
there. Does that mean they're the possible source?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And when you say "a possible source," there are many other
possibilities; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There are many other possibilities.

*MR. HARMON:* On the other hand, is all of the data that you observed in
the RFLP results and the PCR results on G4, is that all accounted for
when one combines the types of Mr. Goldman and Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* So there's nothing foreign to either of--well, either
Ronald Goldman or Nicole Brown in any of the stains that we've discussed
to this point, G1, G2, G3 and G4; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Let's talk about G9, okay? That is not one of the stains
that was subjected to RFLP typing; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* What sort of tests did you subject G9 to?

*MR. SIMS:* G9 was tested for DQ-Alpha and D1S80, PCR markers.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results were obtained?

*MR. SIMS:* For G9, DQ-Alpha was 1.3, 4, possible 1.2 with possible
trace, 1.1.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove that cover from that column of PCR
results, please?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, are these results different than--the PCR results
in G9, are they in any way different than the results from, say, G4?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, they're different in that we do not detect the 18
allele, for example, in--in--in G9 which we did detect in G4. Also,
the--there is a difference with regards to the 1.1 allele. It is--it was
determined to be clearly present in G4, but now it's dropped down to the
category of possible trace in G9.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So just move up one notch then. Are the results that
you obtained from G9 from the glove at Rockingham, are they consistent
with the results, just the PCR results that you obtained from G3?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. The possible 1.2 that you've already described the
explanation for?

*MR. SIMS:* Right.

*MR. HARMON:* And a possible trace 1.1; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, you're not saying that it is your opinion that based
on those possibilities, that Mr. Simpson is not excluded, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* Can you rephrase that? That had a lot of negatives.

*MR. HARMON:* Couple of negatives in there, huh? Are you saying that Mr.
Simpson is not excluded as a result of your analysis on G9, the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I find no evidence, for example, of these 25 alleles.
So I--I wouldn't say he's in that category.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And from among the three reference types in this
case, whom have you not excluded as the source of G9?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove that cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* So G9 is not a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there's no clear mixture there. Is it possible that
there's some traces that are causing a mixture? Yes. But it's not what
we would call a clear-cut mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And everything that you see concretely, could that
be accounted for from the typing that you performed on Mr. Goldman's
reference sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's move on to G10 then. No RFLP results on G10?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* What sorts of tests did you subject that stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* That was subjected to PCR test, DQ-Alpha and D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* For DQ-Alpha, 1.3, 4, possible 1.2 and then weaker 1.1
allele, indicating a mixture. For D1S80, 24 allele and then a weaker 25
allele, again indicating a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* So we got something new in the mix here, huh?

*MR. SIMS:* That's--that's correct. This is where we first found the 25
allele.

*MR. HARMON:* And the 25 allele from among the three reference types in
this case, is there anyone that has the 25 allele at the D1S80 locus?

*MR. SIMS:* The Defendant has the 25 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you uncover the results from G10?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And do those--are those results accurately described for
G10 on our result board?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, let's talk about DQ-Alpha. Is there anything about
your observations of the DQ-Alpha results that helps you sort out how
many people are involved here?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it's still difficult to say exactly how many. But one
notices that there's information there about the 1.1 allele being weaker
than the 1.3, 4 alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* And what's the significance of that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that gives us some information as to whether or not
which alleles might go with the other alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom were you able to exclude from among the three
reference types in this case as a possible source of what you saw in
stain G10?

*MR. SIMS:* We were able to exclude Nicole Brown because we didn't find
her 18 allele on the D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove that cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* So you were able to exclude Miss Brown as a possible
source for the mixture that you saw there?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. You were not able to exclude Mr. Goldberg?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* You were not able to exclude the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, is all of the data, all of the types that you
observed in the DQ-Alpha results and the D1S80 results consistent with a
mixture of Mr. Goldman and Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is consistent with a mixture of those two individuals.

*MR. HARMON:* So there are no alleles that are unaccounted for from
what--if you mix Mr. Goldman's blood and Mr. Simpson's blood?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Move to strike.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Are there any alleles unaccounted for in your results when
you compare the mixture results you obtained with a combination of the
types of Mr. Goldman and Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* And is--is this stain different than every other stain
you've described to this point, G1, G2, G3, G4 and G9?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to the term "stain."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is different in that the key finding is the 25
allele on D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move on to G11. No RFLP testing done on this
stain?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* What sorts of tests did you perform on this stain?

*MR. SIMS:* The only test that was performed was the D1S80 test.

*MR. HARMON:* And why was that?

*MR. SIMS:* We haven't performed any DQ-Alpha type yet on this series.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What were the results of the D1S80 testing on G11?

*MR. SIMS:* On G11? The finding was the 24 allele and then weaker 25 and
18 alleles, again indicating a mixture because there's three alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove that cover from the stain at G11?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And is what's on the board accurately describe the
results of your D1S80 testing on G11?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom were you able to exclude--or I'm sorry. Withdraw
that. From among the three reference types in this case, whom were you
not able to exclude as a possible source of the D1S80 mixture that's on
the board?

*MR. SIMS:* I could not exclude any of the three individuals, the
Defendant, Nicole Brown or Mr. Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* And why is that?

*MR. SIMS:* Because this pattern is consistent with their types. In
other words, their D1S80 types, those alleles, which would be 18, 24 and
25 all found in that stain.

*MR. HARMON:* And if one were to mix Nicole Brown's blood sample with
Ronald Goldman's blood sample--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to this question, sample, blood.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* If one were to combine the types of Nicole Brown and
Ronald Goldman for the D1S80 marker, what would the combined types be?

*MR. SIMS:* If you combined just those two individuals?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* You would see the 18 allele and the 24 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* You would not see the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. It's foreign to both of them.

*MR. HARMON:* So the 25 allele could not have come from Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* The 25 allele could not have come from Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And could you remove the cover of the "not excluded"
column that describes your conclusions?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, you're not saying, are you, that the D1S80 results
could only have come from a combination of those three people, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm not saying that, no.

*MR. HARMON:* Are those results consistent with a mixture of those three
people?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's move on to G12, if you would.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* No RFLP testing on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* No. Only D1S80 testing.

*MR. HARMON:* And what sorts of D1--of testing--of D1S80 testing was
done? I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* It was just D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* That was a 24 allele and then a weaker 18 allele, indicating
a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you remove that cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, the 25 allele or marker for the D1S80 genetic
marker is not in G12; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. The 25 allele is not present in that sample.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you step over to the photo board here, and let's
talk about where the relationship of the G10 to G11 and G12. And we'll
do this again with G13 and G14. It's a dark object. I'd like you to
start out with G10 and then describe exactly where it is and what kind
of surface it's on.

*MR. SIMS:* G10 is on the inside lining of the glove. This would be
towards the thumb down near the wrist watch. It's--the arrow--the red
line is very close to it. It's actually a little bit closer in now where
I'm pointing now, and it's in that general area. This was a--this small
area of bloodstain that I--that I detected in that particular area
/(Indicating)/. And that's G10. Then G11 is now on the outside of the
glove. This is now the palm or surface of the glove. G11 is here to the
side of this wrist notch that I discussed earlier /(Indicating)/. That's
G11. And then G12 is on the--excuse me--the outside palm or surface also
near the wrist notch /(Indicating)/. Then G13 is along this stitched
border of the wrist notch area /(Indicating)/. And finally, G14 is on
the inside back surface near the--near the wrist /(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* I'm sorry. G14?

*MR. SIMS:* Is--did I--I'm sorry. It's on the inside lining.

*MR. HARMON:* Inside. Right.

*MR. SIMS:* That would be the back of the hand.

*MR. HARMON:* Right.

*MR. SIMS:* Near the wrist.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we go back up to the board there, the
result board, Mr. Sims. The G12, you only found 24 and in 18, were you
able to exclude anybody from among the three reference types in this
case from the two victims and Mr. Simpson, the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* We were able to exclude Mr. Simpson because we did not find
his 25 allele on this particular sample, G12.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom are you not able to exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* We were not able to exclude Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* could you remove that cover?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* G13, you did not perform any RFLP test on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. Only D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were the D1S80 results from G13?

*MR. SIMS:* The D1S80 results where the 24 allele was present along with
weaker 25 and 18 alleles.

*MR. HARMON:* So the 25 allele is there again; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And from among the three people, the two victims, Nicole
Brown and Ronald Goldman, and the Defendant, who's the only one that has
the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* That is the Defendant.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the cover for that?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And were you able to--from among the three types that
were provided to you in this case, the two victims and the Defendant,
were you able to exclude any of those people, the three people as a
possible source of that mixture stain?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove that cover, please?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, is it fair to say that every stain that had the 25
allele in it, G10, G11 and G13, was in close proximity to that notch on
the wrist?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you step back to the board and just go G10, G11 and G13?

*MR. SIMS:* G10 again, as I mentioned earlier, is a little closer to the
notch than the red line shows. G11 is on the outside near the notch
area, and then G13 is along that stitch along the notch, along the palm
or surface near the wrist /(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we finish with G14 from the Rockingham
glove, no. 9. What--no RFLP tests were done on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* On G14, no RFLP. Only D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Only D1S80? What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were as follows: The type was determined to be
basically a 24, 24 with a possible trace of the 18 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And would you remove the cover from that board?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And the 25 is not in that stain or you did not detect
it; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Were you able to exclude, based on that, Mr. Simpson, the
Defendant as a possible source of that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* We did not detect the 25 alleles. So we were able to exclude
him on that.

*MR. HARMON:* And are those results consistent with a mixture of the two
victims?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the way we phrase that was that it is--certainly the
24, 24 by itself was consistent with Ronald Goldman's D1S80 type. We
noted that it was poss--there was a possible contribution from Nicole
Brown on the 18 allele, the basis of the 18 allele.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we move on to the sock testing results.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like to--or the sock result board has previously
been marked as exhibit 262, and we should have 262-A then for the sock
photo board then.

/(Peo's 262-A for id = sock photo board)/

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to stand up and take a
stretch while we're waiting to locate the exhibit, go ahead. Mr.
Fairtlough, did we check the hall?

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* It was between two boards, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, would you step up to the photo board that
we've marked as 262-A and just examine the photo board and make sure
we've got things accurately labeled?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And we--the board depicts two photos of sock a; is
that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And then one photo of sock b?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And for consistency, sock a is the one that had the cut
out that Greg Matheson sent you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And the substrate control?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And you performed additional sampling and testing on
stains from sock b?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. As well as sock a.

*MR. HARMON:* As well as sock A. And are there still a number of these
minute areas that you detected blood that have never been tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, they've never been tested by me since I sent them back
in November.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. That you have never tested?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we start out with 42A1. 42 is your
designation for LAPD item 13 which were obtained from Mr. Simpson's home?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. 42 is our designation.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the A1, what does that specify?

*MR. SIMS:* That specifies the cut-out stain that we received from Mr.
Matheson.

*MR. HARMON:* In the little tube you described yesterday?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't you step up to the result board, 262, if
you would.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And you described yesterday and we showed just a few of
the RFLP autorad results for 42A1. How many actual RFLP autorads or
genetic marker tests were performed on 42A1, the cutting that Greg
Matheson sent you from the socks, no. 13?

*MR. SIMS:* In our laboratory, we have now looked at it at 11 genetic
marker--11 loci.

*MR. HARMON:* 11 loci--11 probes?

*MR. SIMS:* 11 probes.

*MR. HARMON:* 11 genetic markers?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove the cover from that?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And yesterday, you described I believe that the
sock--that sock stain, 13A1 or your 42A1, was actually run on two
different gels or two different sets of RFLP tests; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And the sum total of different probes or different genetic
markers from those two tests is 11.

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Did you subject DNA, extracted DNA from that same stain to
PCR testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The PCR testing on that particular sample was done by
Steve Myers in our laboratory.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what sorts of tests were performed?

*MR. SIMS:* That was DQ-Alpha and D1S80 tests.

*MR. HARMON:* And what results were obtained?

*MR. SIMS:* The results that were obtained were a DQ-Alpha type 1.1 and
a D1S80 type 18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom are those PCR results consistent with?

*MR. SIMS:* Those would be consistent with Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* And not consistent with Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* It's not consistent with him?

*MR. SIMS:* Not consistent with the Defendant.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the "not excluded" cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And this is a stain that you sent extracted DNA to
the--to Cellmark diagnostics; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* How many--if we assume that the Cellmark results are
accurately depicted on that chart, how many different separate genetic
marker tests were performed on stain 13A which Greg Matheson cut out
from the socks, 13?

*MR. SIMS:* Now, this is just with DNA markers?

*MR. HARMON:* DNA markers.

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. The five here, we would subtract two from I
believe because Cellmark looks at two probes that--uses two probes that
we use. So that's 14.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you explain that again to the jury a little bit?

*MR. SIMS:* Yeah. The--Cellmark uses a different enzyme for restriction
than we do, that they look at two of the same probes that we do. So
there is some correlation in those results. I don't know off hand
exactly what that correlation is, but those are not entirely independent
results obviously.

*MR. HARMON:* So we'll throw them out. We won't count them.

*MR. SIMS:* For our purposes of what we're talking about now, I would
throw those out.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. How many genetic marker tests were performed aside
from conventional serology?

*MR. SIMS:* We would now have 11 plus the three, which would be 14. The
DQ-Alpha would be 15. D1S80 would be 16, and then I believe we had five
for the poly-marker. So that's now I believe 21.

*MR. HARMON:* 21 genetic marker tests?

*MR. SIMS:* 21 genetic marker tests.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, if the chart is correct, you obtained the same
DQ-Alpha results as Cellmark did on the same DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move on to the stain that you have designated
42A2, which is from sock 13A. Could you come over here and show
us--could you use that long pointer?

*MR. SIMS:* 40?

*MR. HARMON:* 42A2.

*MR. SIMS:* 42A2 is now on the upper part of the sock. It's opposite of
where the LAPD--the opposite side from the LAPD cut out. So it's up here
/(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What sorts of tests did you subject that stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* 42A2 was subjected to DQ-Alpha and D1S80 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The DQ-Alpha type was 1.1, 1.2, the D1S80 type was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom are those results consistent with from among the
reference types in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Those would be consistent with the Defendant, Mr. Simpson.

*MR. HARMON:* And are they inconsistent with Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Are they inconsistent with Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Any question about that?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you remove the--from the "not excluded" column
the cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* So are you saying that Mr. Simpson could be the source
of that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Not that he is the source of that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman are not the source of
that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* They would be excluded.

*MR. HARMON:* 42A3 from sock 13A?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you show us where that is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This is now on the same side as the LAPD cut out, which
is where I'm pointing to the LAPD cut out. You move up the sock, and
42A3 is up in this region /(Indicating)/. It's in the general area, but
on the opposite side of 42A2. So--yes. It's on the opposite side.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what sort of tests did you perform on that?

*MR. SIMS:* The tests that were performed were DQ-Alpha and D1S80 and
I'm currently performing an RFLP analysis on that stain.

*MR. HARMON:* On that same stain?

*MR. SIMS:* On that same stain.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain from that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* The PCR results were DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2. D1S80 results
were 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom are those results consistent with from among the
reference types?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, that would be consistent with the Defendant's types.

*MR. HARMON:* Inconsistent with Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And inconsistent with Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* No question about that?

*MR. SIMS:* No question.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you remove the "not excluded" cover?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* So you mentioned you were performing additional tests.
Those tests could not change whose excluded, could they?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for example, if those tests excluded the Defendant,
they would change that. But they're not going to change the results with
regard to Nicole Brown and Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* Right. 42A4, the stain which is on sock 13A, the toe
region, could you show us where that is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I don't think we mentioned this one yesterday when we
were looking at the video, but this is down in the upper toe area of the
sock a /(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what sorts of tests did you perform on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* That was subjected to PCR test, DQ-Alpha and D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* What results?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2. D1S80 results were
24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And those are the same results you obtained on 42A2 and
42A3; are they not?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you uncover the PCR results?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And could you uncover whom you did not exclude from the
three reference samples provided to you?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And Nicole Brown is excluded?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Ronald Goldman is excluded?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* No question about whether those two--the two victims in
this case are excluded?

*MR. SIMS:* No question.

*MR. HARMON:* 42B1--now, we've moved over to sock 13B. Would you show us
where that is on the photo board?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. 42B1 is in this area where I showed there was--on the
video, there were a lot of additional stains /(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you - let's talk about that for a moment. When you
say there are a lot of additional stains in the area of 42B1, could you
elaborate for a moment?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the elaboration would be that when looking at that
into the stereomicroscope, there are a number of other stains in that
particular area that I examined.

*MR. HARMON:* And how do they compare in size with the stain that you've
analyzed as 42B1?

*MR. SIMS:* Generally--generally they're smaller.

*MR. HARMON:* Can you quantify about how many there are?

*MR. SIMS:* I'd have to look at my notes again, but I think they were in
the neighborhood of 10 on that side, something like that.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you--let's be accurate. Would you do that?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* From my notes, I count about 12 areas.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And--and--

*MR. SCHECK:* Can I see?

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* While you're at it, we're going to talk about your results
in 42B2. What's the relationship of 42B1, 42B2 and these other 12 tiny
little stains?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, they're all in that same general area, and some of
them are significantly smaller than 42B1 and 42B2.

*MR. HARMON:* When you say general area, can you give us a--why don't
you show us up on the photo board 262-A.

*MR. SIMS:* The general area I'm talking about--it's somewhat hard to
see because those logo marks give me my math point and they don't show
up very well in the photograph. But it's basically down in--I'll sort of
mark the lower boundaries--down this part of the sock up to about here
/(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* So if we drew a band around the sock from--that's kind of
bordered by B1 and B2 on that side of the sock that's shown in the
photo, is that the general area they were in?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I would go up about--yes, about as far up as B2.
That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*MR. SIMS:* So somewhere in this general area /(Indicating)/.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't we talk about the type tests you performed
on 42B1 on sock 13B near the ankle.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* What tests did you do?

*MR. SIMS:* The tests that were performed on 42B1 were the PCR test,
DQ-Alpha and DS180.

*MR. HARMON:* What were your results?

*MR. SIMS:* For DQ-Alpha, the type was a 1.1, 1.1. There's a possible
trace of the 1.2 allele. Then on the D1S80, it was 18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you uncover those from the result board?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's talk about this possible trace of 1.2.
You've described that previously with some of your other results.
How--what does that mean in the context of this case? Are you telling us
this is a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I can't say for sure that that's a mixture. I can not
decide between two possibilities. One is that there really is a trace of
that 1.2 allele present from some other individual. The second
possibility is that this is showing up as a weak, a very faint dot in
the typing system.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, if there were really a trace of a 1.2 in there, would
you--or strike that. I'll come to that in a second. From among the three
reference types in this case, were you able to exclude anyone as the
possible source of 42B1?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Who?

*MR. SIMS:* I was able to exclude Ronald Goldman and I felt also that we
could exclude the Defendant based on the fact that we didn't find his
24, 25 on the D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, you're saying you can exclude him even though
there's a possible trace of the 1.2 in there?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I'd have to feel more secure about there being a
definite 1.2 before I would make a statement that he--

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So would you remove the cover from the "not
excluded" column?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And I believe you mentioned that part of the reason you
feel comfortable excluding Mr. Simpson is that you didn't see anything
of his in the D1S80 genetic marker?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Setting aside the possible trace 1.2 for a moment, is
everything that you saw in 42B1 consistent with the genetic marker test
results for Nicole Brown's reference sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That DQ-Alpha type is 1.1, 1.1 and the D1S80 type is
18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move on. And we still have--

*MR. HARMON:* We're getting a patch, your Honor. We have a misnumbering
here.

*MR. HARMON:* It's described--it's your 42B1 and it's actually--the
chart has sock 13A and it's actually 13B. Jonathan is getting us a B
label for that.

*MR. HARMON:* Can we proceed for the moment?

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* And that's also near the ankle. You've already shown us
where that was. What sorts of tests did you subject this stain to?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, that was subjected to DQ-Alpha and D1S80 typing.

*MR. HARMON:* What results did you obtain?

*MR. SIMS:* The results were the same as for B1. In other words, B1 and
B2 gave the same results. DQ-Alpha type would be 1.1, 1.1 with possible
trace 1.2. The D1S80 type was 18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you remove the results from the PCR results
and would you remove the "not excluded"?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Whom are you not able to exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be Nicole Brown. Again, I was not able to exclude
her.

*MR. HARMON:* And in spite of the possible trace 1.2, the same
explanation; you feel that there's no reason to include Mr. Simpson in
those results?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Was there a substrate control that was submitted to you or
that you cut out to conduct testing in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There were substrate controls taken from the socks.

*MR. HARMON:* How many different substrate controls did you take?

*MR. SIMS:* The substrate controls that I took were, first of all, the
LAPD cut out. I used that one. And then I used one for 42A2. In that
general area, I cut one out near stain 42A2, which I used to serve as a
control in that upper area of the socks. So it served as a control for
both A2 and A3. And then also, for 42A4, there was a substrate control
area. That was the one down towards the toe. And then finally, for 42B1,
I took one control for that general area to cover both stain B-1 and
stain B2.

*MR. HARMON:* And you processed those substrate controls just as you
processed the evidence stains that you just described?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what--generally speaking, can you make a categorical
statement about the results of your processing the substrate controls of
the socks?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They all gave negative results on the PCR typing tests.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, was there one that behaved a little bit differently
than the others?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. On--I believe it was 42A4 in the upper toe region--the
toe region, that control.

*MR. HARMON:* What was their--now, you already told us it produced no
typing results.

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that--is that critical, that it produced no typing
results?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it's not critical when you're talking about an item of
clothing that it's negative. If it's negative, you can make an inference
from that. But if it's--if there was some background, that would not be
totally unexpected in this kind of a sample.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I guess what I'm saying is, it didn't produce a
type; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that what you're looking for when you're typing
substrate controls? If it does not produce a type, that's a significant
result?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. If it doesn't produce a type, then it gives you
confidence in the typing results for the bloodstains.

*MR. HARMON:* What was it about the control that was a little bit
different than the other controls?

*MR. SIMS:* For that particular sample, there was some DNA depicted on a
yield gel. It was just a yield gel.

*MR. HARMON:* I know we went through this before. Could you just give us
about a 90 second on why that doesn't undermine any of the results in
this case?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, objection to the form.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* Does that--does that DNA on the yield gel undermine your
confidence in any of the results in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* No, it doesn't. I don't know whether or not, for example,
that DNA might be of non-human origin. There may be some bacteria or
fungus there or something like that. And the point is that it did not
produce a PCR result as far as type. So we saw something on the yield
gel that was DNA, but it did not produce a typing result.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I was going to move to Bundy now. Do you want
to do that or wait?

*THE COURT:* Well, let's take a--since we'll have to change boards,
let's take the opportunity to take a--

*MR. HARMON:* We are going to patch the board right now.

*THE COURT:* Yes, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please remember all of
my admonitions to you; do not discuss the case amongst yourselves, do
not form--can we have it quiet, please? Do not form any opinions about
the case, do not conduct any deliberations until the matter has been
submitted to you, do not allow anybody to communicate with you with
regard to the case. We'll stand in recess until 1:00 o'clock. And, Mr.
Sims, you can step down. Thank you.

/(At 11:58 A.M., the noon recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same
day.)/

//*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; WEDNESDAY, MAY 17, 1995 1:03 P.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Back on the record on the Simpson case, all parties are
again present. Mr. Harmon, do you have your witness with his--do you
have Mr. Fairtlough with all our exhibit boards that are next up?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes. Do you want us to put them up now?

*THE COURT:* I want to make sure you are ready to go.

*MR. HARMON:* We are ready to go and we did mark or capture autorad A16
which is exhibit 271-A and we should mark that 271-A(1).

*THE COURT:* So marked.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you.

/(Peo's 271-A(1) for id = autorad/photograph)/

//*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* The Bundy board has already been referred to, the result
board, and the photo board has already been testified about.

*MR. SCHECK:* Nothing--

*THE COURT:* Nothing new, all right.

*MR. HARMON:* The--all right. Let's have the jury.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* And Mr. Harmon, well take our break at 2:15.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Your Honor, after we do the Bundy boards, we are
going to bring in the light box.

*THE COURT:* The monster?

*MR. HARMON:* The monster.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Are you going to suggest a jury parade by the box?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor. Because of the number of autorads, we
will have to do them in three different sets.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* I think we are organized to do that, so--

*THE COURT:* All right. We will make sure there is no extraneous--we may
have to move the cart there and a few other things.

*MR. HARMON:* Our slogans can't be seen there?

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. All right. Let the record reflect we have been joined by all the
members of our jury panel. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Sims, would you resume the witness stand,
please.

/Gary Sims, the witness on the stand at the time of the noon recess,
resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* Good afternoon again, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Good afternoon, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* You are reminded, sir, you are still under oath. And Mr.
Harmon, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*_DIRECT EXAMINATION _*_(R*ESUMED) BY MR. HARMON*_

_**_*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, let's move on to the testing that you
performed on stains that were collected from the Bundy crime scene, if
you will, and I would like to display exhibit 165, the photo board. Will
that one work over here or do we need it--okay. And then the exhibit
result board, exhibit 259.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough. I think, actually 1492, it is touching
the screen. Can you pull it out just a little?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, Mr. Fairtlough.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, did your laboratory perform DNA testing on
numerous items that were collected at the Bundy crime scene?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Starting at the top, did your laboratory perform any DNA
testing on item no. 47, which was associated with the Bundy walkway, the
stain closest to the victims in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. We performed PCR, DQ-Alpha and D1S80 tests.

*MR. HARMON:* And what were the results of those tests?

*MR. SIMS:* The results for DQ-Alpha were 1.1, 1.2; for D1S80, 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And are those results consistent with any of the three
reference samples in this case that were provided to you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom are they consistent with?

*MR. SIMS:* They are consistent with the Defendant, Mr. Simpson.

*MR. HARMON:* Are they inconsistent with Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Are they inconsistent with Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there any question about their inconsistency with
Ronald Goldman and Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* There is no question.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you, if you can, reach up there and remove the
cover for--I don't think so.

*MR. SIMS:* I think we need the Lakers to do this one.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Fairtlough, let's leave it there, and
1492, as we progress, we will move it up.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that the same 25 allele with the D1S80 genetic marker
that you observed on the stains, those three stains, near the notch area
of the glove that was recovered at Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They both have the 25 allele.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor--excuse me, your Honor. Logistically it would
be better, I would stipulate, why doesn't he just pull all the matches
he is going to pull off the board, then put it up so that there is no
problem with the jury and we don't have to go through that.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, any objection?

*MR. HARMON:* Pull them all off, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's parade it back up.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, if our chart, if our result chart is correct,
exhibit 259 Cellmark obtained as DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2 and polymarker
inclusion which described Mr. Simpson, the Defendant, as the possible
source of this stain. Are your results corroborative of those results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are consistent.

*MR. HARMON:* And you obtained the same DQ-Alpha result as they did?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, is this one of the stains where one or the other of
the labs extracted the DNA and shared it with the other lab?

*MR. SIMS:* No. We sampled separate swatches or separate swatch material.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So your results were produced from a swatch?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to no. 48. You performed DQ-Alpha, D1S80
testing on item no. 48 from the Bundy walkway, the next one down the
walkway; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. HARMON:* Same result as item 47?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Again the DQ-Alpha type was 1.1, 1.2 and the D1S80 type
was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Moving--and again, that result is corroborative of
the Cellmark results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is. We obtained the same DQ-Alpha.

*MR. HARMON:* And it is identical with 47?

*MR. SIMS:* It is the same result.

*MR. HARMON:* Item no. 49, the next one down the walkway, it is in the
lower photograph on the left-hand corner of exhibit 165. What results
did you--I'm sorry, that is a Cellmark result.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's move down to item no. 50, the next one after 49,
along the Bundy walkway, which is depicted in the upper left-hand,
second one from the left on the photo board. What results did you obtain
from that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Our laboratory detected DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2; the D1S80
type was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And that is the same result that you obtained on 48 and 47?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* And did you obtain the same DQ-Alpha as Cellmark obtained
on different swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And did your results from item no. 50, along the Bundy
walkway, did they exclude the two victims in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they did exclude the two victims.

*MR. HARMON:* As did the results this item 48, did they exclude the two
victims in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they did.

*MR. HARMON:* Moving down, farther down the farthest stain along the
walkway, item no. 52, which is in the photograph that I'm pointing to
here, what sort of testing did you do on that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* On that stain we tested for DQ-Alpha and D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* You obtained the same results as did you on 50 and 48 and 47?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom were you able to exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* We were able to excluded the two victims in this case.

*MR. HARMON:* And whom were you able--were you not able to exclude?

*MR. SIMS:* We were not able to exclude the Defendant.

*MR. HARMON:* And moving along to at a later point, you have already
described how you sampled items from the nail kit from Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's just reflect back on the items that you
sampled and describe--because the numbering system sometimes gets
confusing--could you relate your item numbers to the LAPD item numbers
which are 84 and 84B?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Our item number was 46B for their item no. 84A which is
the left hand material, and then our no. 45A was the--45 was our number
for their no. 84B, the right hand material.

*MR. HARMON:* And just to get a little more descriptive here, 45A-1B--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* --is that the blood that was closely associated with
whatever that was that you thought might very well have been tissue?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That is that blood next to that area.

*MR. HARMON:* And that you determined was not tissue?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* And go on to the next item and just so we can relate it to
what you observed or what you examined.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That would be which item now?

*MR. HARMON:* Well, 45B is the scrapings from the right hand?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, 45B, those are the right hand scrapings.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Did you obtain--I'm sorry, go ahead. Did you obtain
the same results from all three items, all three stains that you tested
from the nail clippings from the left hand, the nail scrapings from the
right hand, and the nail clippings from the right hand?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Those were tested for D1S80 by Renee Montgomery and she
obtained the same result for all three samples.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Will you describe whether or not any of the three
reference types that were provided to you were excluded as the possible
source of that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Two of the reference samples were excluded. That would
be the reference sample from Ronald Goldman and from the Defendant, Mr.
Simpson.

*MR. HARMON:* So you were not able to exclude Nicole Brown as the source
of the scrapings that were in the bindle from either the left hand; is
that right?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Or the right hand?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that correct--or the item that you have described as
45A-1B, which is from the right hand clippings; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Are your results from the three items, from the nail
clippings and scrapings from the left hand and the right hand, are they
corroborative of the results that are listed for Cellmark on the result
board?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They are consistent in that Nicole Brown would not be
excluded as the source of those items.

*MR. HARMON:* And how many genetic markers, if you combine the Cellmark
testing on the three items from the nail clippings and scrapings with
the D1S80 marker, how many genetic markers were tested in order to try
to demonstrate that Nicole Brown could not be the source of what was
under her fingernails or on her fingernail?

*MR. SCHECK:* I would object to the word "combine."

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* How many genetic markers if you counted, if Cellmark's
description, if the description of their result is accurate, how many
markers, genetic markers were tested in order to determine whether
Nicole Brown could or could not be the source of the blood under her
fingernails or on her fingernails in one instance?

*MR. SIMS:* There would be a total of seven genetic markers because
there would be five from polymarker, DQ-Alpha would make six and D1S80
would make seven.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. The last three items on the result board, 115, 116
and 117. They are described as being on the rear gate at Bundy?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And those are reflected in the photographs labeled 115,
116 and 117. What sorts of tests did you subject those three stains to?

*MR. SIMS:* May I refer to my notes?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/ Those three samples from the rear gate
have been subjected to three PCR tests and we are also currently running
an RFLP test on one of them.

*MR. HARMON:* What were the results of the PCR test on those samples?

*MR. SIMS:* /(No audible response.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Strike that. Preliminarily, did you get the same results
for the PCR tests that you subjected those three samples to?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, all three gave the same results.

*MR. HARMON:* What are those results?

*MR. SIMS:* The results are that the DQ-Alpha type was 1.1, 1.2. The
D1S80 type was 24, 25.

*MR. HARMON:* And why don't you remove those covers, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* /(Witness complies.)/

*MR. HARMON:* Go ahead. Are those results consistent with not being from
Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. By those results we would exclude Nicole Brown.

*MR. HARMON:* And would you also exclude Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we would also exclude Ronald Goldman.

*MR. HARMON:* And from among the three reference samples provided to
you, were you able to exclude the Defendant in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* No, we could not.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, I have asked you this before, but I want to ask you
this again. Are those DQ-Alpha and D1S80 results together consistent
with being from an offspring, a child of Nicole Brown and the Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* No, they are not.

*MR. HARMON:* They could not be from a child of Nicole Brown and the
Defendant?

*MR. SIMS:* No, they could not.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's go back to the top again, and if you would, I would
like to ask you a general question about all the stains that you have
described. Were substrate controls tested, submitted to the same process
that the evidence stains were, on items that are on this board from the
Bundy crime scene?

*MR. SIMS:* By that you mean 47, 48, 50 and 52, as well as the lower items?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes. Let's separate out the nail clippings first.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. For those items, 47, 48, 50 and 52, along with 115,
116 and 117, we also tested substrate controls in both of the PCR systems.

*MR. HARMON:* And did all of those controls test clean or not produce
any sort of DNA type in any of the tests?

*MR. SIMS:* They were all negative.

*MR. HARMON:* They were all negative. What about the nail clippings
which are described as 84 and B, the three samples that you actually
tested, was it possible to obtain a substrate control?

*MR. SIMS:* There would not be what we would consider a substrate
control for those types of samples.

*MR. HARMON:* Why is that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, because this is material from under the fingernails
and one does not obtain a clean area from that kind of sample, and
particularly in a case like this where all the ones we saw had some
blood associated with them.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, does that in any way, the absence of a
substrate control for the nail clip items, does that in any way
undermine your confidence in the results that you have just presented to
the jury?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, this would be a point to move the light box
in, if that would be okay.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I would like
Mr. Sims to display on the light box exhibits 269-A through i.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And at the same time, so that the jury may orient
themselves, display on the elmo 269-C, one which is one of those--it is
the first autorad that we actually displayed that we have--

*THE COURT:* With the arrows.

*MR. HARMON:* --marked with the arrows.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Do you need Mr. Sims to step down?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, for the record, just so it is clear, these
are copies; not the originals.

*MR. HARMON:* We can substitute the originals.

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We are just waiting to get 269-C(1). Jonathan, why
don't you get 270-A(1) and 271-A(1) as well.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So we can put up on the elmo 269-C(1). Have we
have got everything?

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, we are going to project 269-C(1) and I just want
you to tell the jury what is on there and we will display it as you put
the arrows on it so they can correlate the samples, if you would. Okay.
Now, this is one of several autorads and the arrows point to the match
between which samples?

*MR. SIMS:* The samples that match are the Nicole Brown reference sample
and the sock 13A stain sample.

*MR. HARMON:* And the complete set of autorads shows the complete set of
genetic marker tests that were done on this gel that so the match
between the sock and Nicole Brown; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This is--you will recall this is all involving the
sock. The sock also appears on some additional--on one additional gel,
that would be a second set of autorads.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, this would be the point that we can all step
back and let the jury come through.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with juror no. 1
and take your time, as much time as you need.

/(The jurors view the exhibits.)/

//*THE COURT:* And Miss Clark, Mr. Cochran, approach, please.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

/(The jurors continue to view the exhibits.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. The record should reflect that all the jury
members have had the opportunity to view the autorads with regards to
LAPD item 13A.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, next I would like to--to remove exhibit 269-A
through I from the light box and place 270-A through h on the light box,
and then 270-A(1) on the elmo.

*THE COURT:* All right. Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, after you finish putting them up there, if you
could just briefly describe the samples that are on there to get the
jury oriented to your autorads that we put up there.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* For this gel or membrane I again put the three reference
samples on this particular gel. There is also an additional lane that
has the sock, the same stain that you saw on the previous set, and now I
have also added stain G3 from the glove to this particular gel, so there
is some duplication of the sock as far as some of the loci that were
examined.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Can we have the jury view the autorads, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* All right. Juror no. 1.

/(The jurors view the exhibits.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. The record should reflect that all the jurors
have had the opportunity to review that exhibit as well as each of the
autorads. Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Finally, if we remove 270, the 270 series, a through
h, and place the 271-A through--I can't remember where we ended up with
that one, your Honor. Is that e? A through e.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And can we put on the elmo 271-A(1)?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And Mr. Sims, could you look up at the projection screen
there and just get the jury oriented. Let's talk about the red arrows.
What do those show a match between?

*MR. SIMS:* The red arrows show a match between the reference sample
from Nicole Brown and two of the bands in the lane which has "glove G1
stain."

*MR. HARMON:* The green arrows, what do they show?

*MR. SIMS:* The green arrows show the match between the band for Mr.
Goldman's reference sample and two of the other two bands in the glove
G1 stain.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could we have the jury view those autorads, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(The jurors view the exhibits.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, while the jury is looking could I approach
with Mr. Harmon for a second?

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We are over at the side bar.

*MR. SCHECK:* There is a seven-probe match on item no. 117 from the
gate, and I am aware of it, and I asked Mr. Harmon today, and previously
I indicated to him that I certainly have no objection to him bringing
this out in his testimony right now, rather than calling this witness back.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I am kind of shocked to hear this acquiescence because if
you recall--no, if you recall, I said I wasn't going to present it and
I'm not prepared, so I am--

*THE COURT:* Hold on.

*MR. HARMON:* --I am not prepared to do that today.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, as a matter of fact, what I requested with respect
to these samples before when we had the issue arise, since this
testimony is ongoing during the course of the proceedings and we had
this problem with reporting the results of 115 and 116 before they were
done, at that time I requested of the Court that we have reports of the
results as they came in. Now, it seems to me that he doesn't want to
bring it out, I intend to bring it out. I don't want something coming
out later that makes it look like there is something more there. I want
to go into an inquiry as to--

*THE COURT:* Well, we probably--

*MR. SCHECK:* 115, 116, 117. I want to go into the status and I'm giving
him fair notice.

*THE COURT:* We probably won't finish with him.

*MR. HARMON:* I think we noticed to have some discussion on this,
because this is the most bizarre, insincere--there is something else
going on here, Judge, and you know that and I know that.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, hold on. He offered to let you put there in
now. If you want to do it, do it. If you want the evening to think about
it, fine.

*MR. HARMON:* No. We don't have the autorads, but this idea that he is
going to elicit the RFLP results at this point when it is beyond the
scope of direct examination--

*THE COURT:* Well, let's see how far you get with your direct today.

*MR. HARMON:* I haven't reviewed his notes. I mean, I'm very meticulous
with this, and if you want to review back, Judge--

*THE COURT:* Rock, it is just an offer. Think about it.

*MR. HARMON:* It is not an offer, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Well, I would encourage you to think about it simply so
that we can move this along.

*MR. HARMON:* I understand. The amount of time--

*MR. SCHECK:* I would expect to be finished today.

*MR. HARMON:* The amount of time it will take today to present it is the
same amount of time that it will take in a few weeks. There is something
else going on here and you know that and I know that.

*THE COURT:* Hold on. Hold on. Putting all that aside--

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* How much--

*MR. HARMON:* It is hard to, though.

*THE COURT:* Putting all that aside, how much more do you have with this
guy?

*MR. HARMON:* This is a four o'clock day?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* I want to talk about contamination, degradation and I'm
going to try to pick it up, but the logistics of these things will slow
things down. We are pretty much beyond all of these displays, now so
depending on how many objections there are.

*THE COURT:* Have there been many?

*MR. HARMON:* Continue that and I can--so I'm going to try to do it this
afternoon. We've got the statistics. If I have to do a broad going back
to his credentials--that is one way we can acquiesce and speed things
up. Let him calculate across the lanes and that will really speed things up.

*THE COURT:* Oh, get Dr. Weir in here.

*MR. HARMON:* He is coming. He is coming for sure. No question he is coming.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Thanks for the offer.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

/(The jurors continue to view the exhibits.)/

//*THE COURT:* And Mr. Cochran and Miss Clark.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

/(The jurors continue to view the exhibits.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. The record should reflect
all the jurors have had the opportunity to review the third set of
autorads. Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes. Can we move that out? Is it still plugged in?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Harmon, you may continue.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I want to ask you a question about the
consistency of certain results and specifically I want to ask you about
stains in which you did PCR typing and produced results, DQ-Alpha, 1.1,
1.2 and D1S80 24, 25?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it true that as a result of your testing you achieved
those same results which are consistent with Mr. Simpson on item no. 6
from Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Item no. 42A2 which is sock 13A?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, this is asked and answered four times now, so
if we to get to another point.

*THE COURT:* We have heard this and we have seen it on the result board.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Is it true that you produced the same results for
DQ-Alpha 1.1, 1.2, on items from Rockingham, from Mr. Simpson's sock,
from Mr. Simpson's Bronco--

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, this is--

*MR. HARMON:* From the Bundy crime scene?

*MR. SCHECK:* It is leading and it is getting kind of--

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained. We have heard this.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, as a forensic scientist, what is the impact or
what is the implication of duplicate testing by separate labs? What
issues does that address?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, duplicate testing is important in a way that it--it
provides a control in case any mistake might be made by one laboratory,
then by having a second laboratory do the same operations that would be
a check on the consistency of the operations and the process.

*MR. HARMON:* All right. Anything else if the duplicate testing is of
the same sample, in terms of conclusions, that one could draw from the
same testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In other words, one would look then to make the same
conclusions as to who might be included or excluded as a source.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And have you--well, we will come back to that. Mr.
Sims, can you think of any scientific reason the tests that your lab
subjected the variety of stains that were given to you would produce
correct results on stains at the Rockingham address but incorrect
results on the Bundy stains and the Bronco stains?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, objection, objection.

*THE COURT:* What is the objection?

*MR. SCHECK:* Leading, speculative, vague, not specific.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, what scientific reason, if any, can you produce
that would explain why your results might be correct on stains from
Rockingham but incorrect from stains that were collected at Bundy and
the Bronco?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Do you understand the question?

*MR. SIMS:* I think I do, although there is some question about
scientific reasoning.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there any scientific reason why your tests would work
on stains from Mr. Simpson's house but not on stains from the crime
scene and his Bronco?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, objection to "tests working" as being vague--

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* Why don't you just narrow it down to one and the other.
It is also compound.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, and listen very carefully, if you will, what
scientific reason, if any, is there that your test would produce
reliable results on stains from Mr. Simpson's house but unreliable
results from Bundy?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, is there any scientific reason why--that you can
think of why your tests would work correctly on stains from Mr.
Simpson's house but incorrectly on stains from his car?

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, now, there are some other results that we have
not discussed; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe that's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, among the other items that were submitted to you was
an item described as LAPD no. 113 which was a hair?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And I think you actually alluded to it this morning. There
was no DNA that was extracted from that hair?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. That test was performed by Steve Myers and
he obtained no DNA. He detected no human DNA in that sample.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, in addition to all the results that you've
presented here, were specific items of clothing submitted to you or
cuttings from clothing submitted to you for testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And specifically was a pair of jeans that was
identified as LAPD item no. 19, Ronald Goldman's jeans, was that
submitted to you for DNA testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it was.

*MR. HARMON:* And were tests performed on those stains?

*MR. SIMS:* Now again the number was?

*MR. HARMON:* 79, your 59?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, that's correct, item no. 79, which is our DNA 59, that
was a pair of pants.

*MR. HARMON:* And how many separate stains were tested from that item?

*MR. SIMS:* Nine.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And item no. 81, LAPD item no. 81, which was
identified as Ronald Goldman's shirt, was that also subjected to DNA
testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And how many items, how many specific stains were tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. We received eight stains plus one control,
substrate control area.

*MR. HARMON:* And those were all tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, all of those were tested.

*MR. HARMON:* And additionally, item no. 86, which was identified as
Nicole Brown Simpson's dress, was that also submitted to your lab for
testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it was.

*MR. HARMON:* And how many separate stains were tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Six.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. As a result--what were you attempting to look for?
What was the laboratory attempting to look for when those items of
clothing were tested?

*MR. SCHECK:* I think that is--calls for speculation, leading as far as
the results.

*THE COURT:* It is compound. Why don't you rephrase it as to the
individual items, what tests were performed.

*MR. HARMON:* You have reviewed all the results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* Were any results produced from the testing of those items
that were foreign to either of the victims in this case, Ronald Goldman
or Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* No. All of the results that we obtained from those various
items that you mentioned of clothing were consistent with either victim
or a combination thereof.

*MR. HARMON:* When you say a combination, you mean a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, we have seen all the boards and you have
described the consistency of results and now I would like to begin
addressing how you would communicate to the jury the significance of the
consistency or the matches between the reference stains and the evidence
stains in this case, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor--

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, yesterday you described your career for us in
great detail and I asked you about your experience in conventional
serology and you described how many times you testified. Of all of those
times that you testified did you provide, when it was appropriate, the
statistical estimate or some sort of frequency data to assist the jury
in appreciating how important or unimportant the conventional serology
results were?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, most of the time. Not always; but most of the time.

*MR. HARMON:* When you say "most," why did you not present it in some cases?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, sometimes it was maybe just an exclusion or something
like this and type was not--there was no need for a frequency estimate.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, in those times how--did you actually conduct
your own population frequency studies in the conventional serology field
that you relied on when you testified?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I did not.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What sources of information were available to you
when you testified as an expert in forensic serology to provide these
frequency estimates to assist juries?

*MR. SIMS:* I would--in those cases I would look at both published and
unpublished data.

*MR. HARMON:* And when you say "published," where would these things be
published?

*MR. SIMS:* For example, in the journal of forensic sciences.

*MR. HARMON:* That is a journal that continues to exist today?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. HARMON:* What other sources of information did you rely on?

*MR. SIMS:* I would sometimes look at frequencies put together by
various laboratories that had gathered data.

*MR. HARMON:* For example, are you familiar with how the Los Angeles
Police Department compiles their conventional serology data?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I have some information about that. I believe they take
a general population database.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that something that they publish somewhere?

*MR. SIMS:* I have never seen it published.

*MR. HARMON:* So was it unusual, in your conventional serology career,
for you to rely on unpublished data as well as published data?

*MR. SIMS:* No. Most of it was published, but I would rely on--on other
data also.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And in trying to describe to the jury the
significance of your conventional serology results, did you rely on the
product rule?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you briefly explain the product rule to the jury?

*MR. SIMS:* The product rule describes the process whereby one looks at
the various types in each of the genetic marker systems and then
multiplies the frequency found in a particular system or times the
frequency of a particular type in the next system et cetera, down the
line. That is the product rule.

*MR. HARMON:* And that is in a vacuum, but you had individual genetic
markers in the conventional serology days that you inserted into the
product rule?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. For example, the ABO type and PGM type.

*MR. HARMON:* EAP type?

*MR. SIMS:* EAP type.

*MR. HARMON:* And the studies, both published and unpublished, justified
the use of the product rule in the conventional serology context?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In particular, the published studies.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I know we went into your background quite
extensively yesterday, but do those same principles generally apply in
the DNA context, the product rule, multiplying individual markers or
individual frequencies together?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, no foundation with respect to DNA through this
witness, certainly on not what has been--

*THE COURT:* I am not asking you to argue any further, Mr. Scheck. I am
thinking.

*MR. HARMON:* I'm sorry, I didn't hear the Court's ruling.

*THE COURT:* I haven't ruled yet; I am thinking about it.

*MR. HARMON:* That is why I didn't hear it.

*THE COURT:* In the eight seconds the trial Court has to think about
these things. Overruled. Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, could we have a side bar?

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Could I hear the question again?

*MR. HARMON:* I will try and get it exactly the way--that is consistent
with the ruling. Are the same principles that you relied on in
conventional serology, the use of the product rule, fundamental to the
estimation of population frequencies in the DNA context?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Are you familiar--what is there in your--is an
appreciation for statistics also helpful in applying the product rule,
both in the conventional serology and the DNA context?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, vague as to--

*THE COURT:* Sustained, "appreciation."

*MR. HARMON:* Do you have any training or education in the field of
statistics that contributes to your ability to use the product rule in
the conventional serology context?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to that linkage as compound.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I have taken a formal course in statistics.

*MR. HARMON:* And could you describe that course and how it lends itself
to the use of the product rule for frequency estimates and we are just
in conventional serology and then we will move up to DNA.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, at that basic level of statistics one is dealing with
probabilities and that sort of thing. It is very basic statistics. I
have also had, as part of my forensic education, discussions and
learning in the application of statistics to population genetics issues.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, so the statistics class was when and where?

*MR. SIMS:* That was at the University of California at Berkeley.

*MR. HARMON:* And when was that?

*MR. SIMS:* 1973.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And population genetics classes and education that
lend themselves to calculating frequency estimates in the DNA context,
could you please--could you outline what those classes have been.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection as to anything in 1973 with respect to DNA.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. He said in terms of conventional serology.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think he just said DNA.

*THE COURT:* No, this question is a different question.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for the conventional serology, that was part of my
education while I was an undergraduate at UC Berkeley as part of our
forensic biology training. Subsequent to that now, as I mentioned, I
reenrolled in the master's program and certainly those issues have come
up in suggestions as part of our formal training and also I have taken a
one-week course from Dr. Bruce weir that dealt with population genetics
and the statistics issues with regards to forensic questions.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I notice it is 2:15. Do you want to--

*THE COURT:* I'm sorry, we need to change court reporters. All right.
Ladies and gentlemen, please remember all my admonitions to you. Don't
discuss the case amongst yourselves, don't form any opinions about the
case, don't communicate with anybody or conduct any deliberations until
the matter has been submitted to you. Stand in recess until 2:30. And
Mr. Sims, you can step down.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Good afternoon again, counsel. Mr. Scheck, you wanted to
elaborate on one of your--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes, your Honor. I wanted to try to get to the bottom of
the qualifications issue because I had asked for a sidebar. It's the
kind of thing that one likes to resolve as a lawyer outside the presence
of the jury so that it goes smoothly. We really have two arguments with
respect to Mr. Sims and the statistics. The first one is that, we don't
believe that taking a one-week course with Dr. Weir on population
genetics constitutes sufficient expertise in that area to offer these
statistics. And the issue here is that an expert, of course, can rely
upon other data that's generally relied upon by experts in the field as
a basis for expert testimony. No problem with that in terms of the
database. The issue is, you first have to be an expert in that field in
order to rely upon the data.

So our first argument is that he is certainly an expert in
criminalistics and in the process of forensic DNA typing, but he doesn't
have sufficient expertise in the issue of--on the area of population
genetics to offer these statistics. And frankly, whatever expertise, and
it's conceivably greater, he had in training and conventional serology
just is--is not really relevant to this determination as the fierce
litigation over statistics and DNA typing and then the actual research
council report itself attests to that fact. The second issue, to
anticipate where we're going, is that if he is qualified for the limited
purposes of offering frequencies from the databases using the systems at
issue, that we have received from the Department of Justice in discovery
in terms of our specific requests for the basis of their statistical
estimates with respect to RFLP, they indicate that they rely upon the
FBI database as the way that they get frequencies. With respect to
DQ-Alpha, it's Dr.--the worldwide database compiled by Dr. Blake and
Helmeth and others. And then with respect to D1S80, we have a letter
from the Department of Justice indicating--attaching an article from the
FBI, which includes a database based on individuals from which the FBI
calculated D1S80 frequencies. So if he's going to testify to
frequencies, it seems to us that just as a pure discovery matter, he
should be limited to the sources they indicated they were going to be
using as their databases. To have him then look at everybody else's
database or other articles and start opining on that I think would be
way beyond the scope. Finally, Mr. Harmon just produced another board
that I'm going to object to with respect to concordance of Cellmark and
DOJ results for different item numbers. And all that they list here are
the various different probes and systems. And I think that this is
plainly cumulative, argumentative and it's--under 352, it's misleading.
We're striving in the use of these boards and in the rulings of the
Court to try to indicate to the jury what the statistical significance
of the evidence is and what it isn't, and here it seems to me it's just
not adding anything. In fact, it's going to be confusing to issue--the
issue to say, well, we have different genetic systems here and there was
a concordance and then there's an implication about multiplying those
and what you can determine from that and probabilities, and it seems to
me that, my lord, it's more than covered by the board they already have
where all of these results are there. And so here, instead of having the
genetic marker system and the statistics, you just have the genetic
marker system without any further elaboration. It seems to me
cumulative, argumentative and more prejudicial than probative under 352.
So those are my arguments. A, he's not qualified to rely on this data.
So he shouldn't give the numbers. B, they should be limited to the
databases they told us they were going to use in discovery and, C, my
objection to the board.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, I'm somewhat shocked because I know in chambers two
days ago, Mr. Scheck--and unfortunately, this wasn't recorded--it's my
recollection said, "Oh, Gary can do all this. There's no problem. We're
not going to object to that. " and I understand things change from day
to day, but I hope People's word doesn't change day to day without some
prior notice to sort of expedite things. I haven't finished trying to
qualify him yet. So I appreciate what the objections are, but we'll take
as long as it takes to convince you that he's qualified, and it won't
take as long as it will take to convince Mr. Scheck that he's qualified
because we'll never get to that point.

One does not need to be an expert in the field of population genetics to
express an opinion about the statistical significance of a match in DNA
typing. Prior to this date, eight other judges in this state--and I
can't vouch for those other judges, but Mr. Sims is batting a thousand
on his ability to qualify and express terms--the statistical
significance of the results that he's produced. And I'm sure when the
Court considers his qualifications and reads the sections concerning
expert testimony, which I just happen to have here, the Court will
realize that an expert is merely someone who has a specialized knowledge
that will assist the jury in understanding the evidence to be presented.
I--of course, I'm paraphrasing it. In that context and once the Court
considers that he is qualified, then he may provide opinion testimony.
And the opinion testimony must be of a type that reasonably may be
relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon which the subject to
which his testimony relates.

*THE COURT:* All right. Is Mr. Scheck correct in his assumption that the
various databases on which Mr. Sims bases his opinions are those that
Mr. Scheck mentioned?

*MR. HARMON:* Let me double-check with Mr. Sims. He's partially correct,
but that's still--I don't think that addresses what Mr. Scheck clearly
has in mind, and that is a discussion that we had a little while ago
about how inappropriate it would be for Robin Cotton to multiply her PCR
results from the same piece of evidence--

*THE COURT:* Well, no. We're getting off to other--

*MR. HARMON:* Well, no. He hasn't addressed that. And I'm sure if I
qualify Mr. Sims and that's the type of material that he may reasonably
rely on, he won't object when we multiply the PCR markers of Cellmark by
the PCR markers of DOJ. So let me just make one last check with Mr. Sims
as far as the statistics that relate to the test results that he
produced. But we should address the cross lab multiplication because
that's coming right after that, your Honor. I mean they're intermixed
within the stains, and so now is the time--now is the time to flush that
out.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorney
and the witness.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* We have provided discovery to the Defense for all of the
data that they have relied on. And, you know, one of the primary ones is
Dr. Blake's world study, which by the way, is not published. It's in a
nice bound cover, but it's not published. It's disseminated. So at least
as far as the results by the Department of Justice lab, we have provided
discovery to the Defense for all of the data that we intend to rely on
in producing the frequency estimates for their test results. That
doesn't include the Cellmark results.

*THE COURT:* All right. What about the--

*MR. SCHECK:* Excuse me, your Honor. That's--

*THE COURT:* No. No. No.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's not in answer to your question.

*THE COURT:* What about the additional board? Why isn't this completely
redundant?

*MR. HARMON:* You know, it's under the topic of redundancy, but it
relates to the question--it's illustrative--if I had it before the
break, I would have put it up or having shown it to Mr. Scheck, it just
illustrates graphically the answer to the question that I asked him, you
know, shortly after the autorad show. I don't think it's redundant
because it specifically shows which of those items do address the
improbability or impossibility of lab error. So I don't agree that it's
redundant in that context. It shows the redundance in scientific context.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could you give me two questions on that board, your
Honor? Two questions?

*THE COURT:* Did I?

*MR. HARMON:* Could you give me two questions on with board?

*THE COURT:* And they are? If you have to read them--

*MR. HARMON:* I don't have them. I'm trying to remember that original
question that I asked.

*MR. SCHECK:* I remember.

*MS. CLARK:* I don't think he wants to ruin the suspense, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* I'll try to do it in one, your Honor. Does this exhibit
demonstrate the redundancy of duplicate testing by separate labs which
minimizes the possibility of laboratory error.

*THE COURT:* All right. I'm going to sustain the objection under a 352
basis. All of this information is on the results board. It's redundant.
I don't like the word "concordance" in this context. I think it's
argumentative. You can use that during argument. It's a nice exhibit. I
would. But for these purposes, I'm going to sustain the objection. All
right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, could I just answer factually just to see if
I'm clear on this? But, number one, maybe Mr. Sims can enlighten us, but
in terms of his eight court appearances, by my count, one of them would
be the Griffen hearing where no statistics were testified to. And I'm
not altogether sure that he can tell us whether statistics were admitted
in the other court appearances. I think some of them might have even
been cases where ultimately the PCR cases were not admitted. Moffett?
Moffett?

*MR. SIMS:* I didn't testify.

*MR. SCHECK:* You didn't testify or-- but in any event, I'm not sure
statistics were in all of them. So inquiry could be made with respect to
the PCR statistics. The other thing is that I take it that Mr. Harmon is
answering yes to the Court's question did I accurately state the
databases that are going to be relied upon. I mean, that's all I'm
trying to ascertain.

*THE COURT:* I took that as a yes as well.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then finally, is there anything else that Mr.
Harmon--before the Court rules--that can be made by way of an offer of
proof outside the hearing of the jury with respect to his qualifications
so that I can deal with it now and we don't have to go through it all in
front of the jury and I don't have to stand up and object. That's the
purpose of this motion in limine.

*THE COURT:* Well, the problem is, the plaintiff is entitled to
establish the qualifications of their witness before the final fact.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm not arguing with that. I'm just saying, if he can make
an offer of proof as to what else there is that qualifies Mr. Sims, then
I can make my objection, and if the Court is going to rule against me
and it's preserved, then I don't have to stand up like a pop-in jay and
jump up and all the rest of it. That's the point of doing this now.

*THE COURT:* All right. Any other comment, Mr. Harmon?

*MR. HARMON:* Just my offer of proof is, he's eminently qualified, and I
suggest that you rule on that and then he won't have to jump up and down.

*THE COURT:* All right. That's very helpful.

*MR. HARMON:* Otherwise--no.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. Luckily, the appellate
courts and the legislature give wide discretion to the trial court in
ruling upon whether or not somebody qualifies as an expert witness.
Here, Mr. Sims has many years of technical experience in the field of
forensic sciences--science and is familiar with and actually has
hands-on experience with the actual testing technique itself, and I'm
convinced also that the databases that have been suggested are reliable
for these purposes. I'm also convinced that the amount of training that
he has had gives him an amount of expertise in the area that is beyond
that of the order layperson. So I find him qualified for these purposes.
All right. And, Mr. Scheck, if you want, at the point in time when the
opinion is offered, you can make your foundational objection for the
record if you want.

*MR. SCHECK:* Actually, what I would prefer to do is just make it now
and ask for it to continue. The only other thing to be raised is, there
is--saying that he's qualified to recite what the frequencies would be
if you plug in the FBI data to the alleles and the DQ-Alpha and the
D1S80 is one thing. To then, as Mr. Harmon has indicated he intends to
do, have this witness testify that it is appropriate and he can multiply
the DQ-Alpha frequencies and the poly-marker frequencies against the
D1S80 frequencies, I think that is beyond the expertise of this witness.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon. Since we'll get to that shortly I'm sure.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. I mean we need to throw Cellmark into the picture
too because that's the next extension to that. It's the same product
rule. It's the same statistical manipulation. He has testified to the
product rule in the PCR cases. I'm not sure--the distinction that Mr.
Scheck tried to make is interesting, but totally irrelevant. It matters
little that the evidence was excluded as the result of some
admissibility hearing. What matters is, that's a different issue than
whether he was qualified to present and express--

*THE COURT:* No. We're beyond that issue. The issue is, is Mr. Sims
qualified to not only give frequencies of the testing that he did, but
also combine the results with the testing that Cellmark did and then
come up with an additional product rule.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. So we're focused on that.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That's the last point.

*THE COURT:* In case you didn't hear, I ruled in your favor on the other
matter.

*MR. HARMON:* How do I miss that? And I think that's very helpful
because that gets to section 804 of the evidence code. Opinion--I mean
if you combine 801, what the opinion testimony of the expert may be
based on, 801(B) with 804, where an opinion where it's appropriate can
be based on the hearsay statement of another expert as long as it's
described that way, that's the rule of law in California. So there are
two steps to it. Mr. Sims, if I'm ever allowed to get him back on the
stand, will explain that it is appropriate for him to rely on data. He's
already expressed it in the conventional serology area where--this is
unpublished data.

I mean, the Blake stuff is unpublished. It's in a nice little cover, but
it's not published. It's the compilation of things that are derived from
other areas, and it's in exactly the same category as the data that was
provided by Robin Cotton to Mr. Sims. Same category, same standing. So
the real question I think that you have to address is contained in 801
and 804; is Mr. Sims telling you the truth when he tells you these are
the kinds of things that experts can rely on.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, a foundational matter. The--it's one thing to
rule, as the Court has, that it's okay for Mr. Sims to say that within
the various markers in the FBI database, the different RFLP markers,
there's a sufficient scientific basis to assume independence and
multiply those--multiply a cross loci and multiply within a locus.
Again, with respect to DQ-Alpha, there is published data by Helmeth, et
al, and Dr. Blake just added some more. But again, that's just dealing
with the independence of the markers within the DQ-Alpha system and
across each of those--across those various alleles and similarly with
respect to D1S80, which is one publication.

The issue as to whether or not for these systems, one can assume that
each of them is independent of the other, particularly when some of
these markers are on the same chromosomes as each other between those
systems I think is clearly beyond this witness' expertise. So it seems
to me that in terms of the Court's discretion, to allow them this change
multiplication at this point in time through this witness when you have
Dr. Weir coming in terms of whether or not this can be done at all is an
extremely serious foundational issue. I think it's just carrying this
way too far and presents a real problem. So I think it's--in terms of
the Court's previous ruling--it's one thing to say that he can plug in
the numbers and compute the frequencies within the systems. It's quite
another to say that he has sufficient expertise in terms of population
genetics or assumptions of independence to multiply these marker systems
against each other.

*MR. HARMON:* Can I have one more try, your Honor, now that I understand--

*THE COURT:* Hold on.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Final comment. Now that I see--I thought it was whether
he couldn't rely on the data. Now that I see clearly what Mr. Scheck's
objection is, the answer is very simple. It's the same product rule,
number one. Number two, the FBI article, which Mr. Sims has in his
briefcase--Mr. Scheck has trivialized that it's just one article, how
many do you need--demonstrates the--if that's not something that they
waived when they waived their hearing way back in January, and I contend
that it is. The FBI article, which Mr. Sims can be glad to demonstrate,
shows the statistical independence which then justifies the use of the
same old product rule to multiply these frequencies. So I thought we
were going on whether he could rely on the data, not on whether they
were significantly independent, which I believe is something they waived
five months ago. So if you'd like to see the article or hear testimony
from Mr. Sims, if that's the only issue, the article clearly addresses
it. There's nothing else in the scientific horizon to the contrary.

*THE COURT:* When do you anticipate getting to this particular issue,
multiplying--attempting to multiply the DOJ results with the Cellmark
results?

*MR. HARMON:* Pretty soon.

*THE COURT:* All right. And I take it your offer of proof is the FBI
database on this?

*MR. HARMON:* Well, the FBI article demonstrates the independence of the
D1S80 data-- I mean, let's focus on the question. And if the question
is, has anybody demonstrated the statistical independence of DQ-Alpha
data from D1S80 data from poly-marker data, which are the only markers
that we want to multiply, yes, the answer is, the FBI article
demonstrates that statistical independence that justifies the use of the
product rule.

*THE COURT:* How long is this article?

*MR. SIMS:* It's about I think five or six or seven pages, something
like that.

*MR. HARMON:* It will just take you a couple minutes, Judge, to read
that over.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let me see it. Although better this than the
six-week DNA hearing.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* While we are waiting for Mr. Sims to retrieve that
article, Miss Clark and Mr. Cochran or Mr. Shapiro, have we reviewed
those reports?

*MR. COCHRAN:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Are there some sensitive matters there?

*MR. COCHRAN:* We have some post-it's we'd like to show you I think on
both sides.

*THE COURT:* All right. Would you have Mr. Golob come out, please?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, may we put this on the glove board? Is that
big enough?

*THE COURT:* Better.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Counsel, this may only be five pages, but it's
the kind of thing you can't read in two minutes, at least not me. Let's
proceed with what you have, Mr. Harmon, and you can present the--we will
stop at the point where you want to combine the results with Cellmark's
results, and we'll quit there for the day, because I'll need to read
this. And, Mr. Scheck, if you have any competing articles or any
additional articles in the area, I would like to see them.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you say competing articles--

*THE COURT:* Anything that disputes this--having not read it, I don't
know what it says.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no. You've read I trust a lot that disputes it
previously. The issue is, this article is the first that's emerged in
the literature even reporting on this question. So it sets the cutting
edge. I mean D1S80--you know, we didn't have a hearing, but D1S80 is not
exactly a frequent character, as a frequent marker system in proceedings
anywhere. So that's our problem here. I think that--

*THE COURT:* All right. No. Mr. Scheck, all I'm doing is inviting you to
provide me with any other information you have.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the Court's done extensive reading I trust already,
you know, with respect to the fundamentals of this. All I'm saying is
that this article just came out. Undoubtedly, there are general
responses, as you know, to this and to the size of the database and the
rest of it, but it's too new for there even to be published responses at
this stage.

*THE COURT:* All right. All right. Mr. Harmon, we're clear, we'll get up
to that point where you want to combine the poly-markers and the other
Cellmark DQ-Alpha results and we'll quit there.

*MR. HARMON:* Just, it would appear that the--the socks may be that
point. And I may even try to skip that. I know we want to take advantage
of the time. So I'll do the best I can to work around since that's a
discreet board.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jury, please.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Sims, would you resume the witness stand, please. And let the record
reflect we've been rejoined by all the members of our jury panel. And,
Mr. Harmon, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, yesterday you testified that you have qualified
as an expert in the field of forensic DNA typing eight times; is that
correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And all of those cases involve PCR typing of one sort or
another?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe most of them did. There may have been one
that did not.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what about how often or how frequently among
those eight cases did you testify about RFLP?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that was in seven of the eight I discussed RFLP.

*MR. HARMON:* And in each of those cases which involved RFLP typing,
were you qualified to express an opinion about the frequency estimate of
the significance of the matches?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, in those cases in which that came up, yes, I was
qualified to do that.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do you keep abreast of the scientific literature
in the area of forensic DNA typing as it relates to the frequency estimates?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you reviewed numerous scientific articles which
address the frequency estimates which are designed to express
significance of these matches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Among those articles, are there actually articles in which
frequency data, the raw data is actually published?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And are there other sources of frequency data which are
made available to forensic DNA typing experts?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What kinds of--or what are those other sources?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for example, there are exchanges such as the
California association of criminalists, one may exchange data, present
it and then exchange it in that fashion.

*MR. HARMON:* And what's the purpose of that exchange of data?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it's a--it's a professional exchange of information so
that--that--for example, a compilation of data may be transferred from
one individual who has put such a compilation together to the rest of
the forensic community so that they can use it.

*MR. HARMON:* And is there also a massive compilation of RFLP data
that's available through the federal government?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There is a very large set of data now that is available
through the federal government.

*MR. HARMON:* In a very brief description, could you tell us what that
data consists of?

*MR. SIMS:* That data is a compilation of actually worldwide RFLP data.
It encompasses I believe four volumes in a government publication. It's
a worldwide study.

*MR. HARMON:* Not to get too technical here, but does it include data
produced from the restriction enzyme HAE-3, which you use?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. HARMON:* And data produced by the restriction enzyme that Cellmark
uses, hin-F1?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There is a volume dedicated to the HIN-F enzyme as I
recall.

*MR. HARMON:* And more specifically, do you have a compilation of data
that was compiled by Dr. Edward Blake and others?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that additionally one source of PCR data
information that you use?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what sources is that data derived from?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there's a large number--there are a large number of
sources for that data. Most of it is published data. Some it has been
presented, that sort of thing.

*MR. HARMON:* And that's the same Dr. Blake that took all the pictures
in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you compiled population frequency estimates for the
testing that your lab conducted in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And are you prepared, if we go in ascending numerical
order, to write those frequency estimates on the board for us?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I can do that.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Can we start out with the Rockingham board, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Exhibit 261.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I'm going to ask you to write these things up
in a minute. I want you to explain where the data was derived from for
the DQ-Alpha frequencies that you're about to put up there and what
source the data for the D1S80 frequency was from.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The--the DQ-Alpha frequencies are derived from a
worldwide's or the worldwide compilation of Dr. Edward Blake's that was
put together in 1994 by Dr. Blake. The--and that would encover--that
would cover the three different groups that I will mention, which are
the African American, the Caucasian and the Hispanic data. Then the
D1S80 data arrives from--derives from two sources. The African American
and Caucasian D1S80 is from the FBI and then the Hispanic D1S80 data was
derived from the Orange County Sheriff's Department database.

*MR. HARMON:* What I'd like you to do--we're--I only want to put a range
of numbers up there. Could you please describe for the jury the
frequency of the combined type that you produced from DQ-Alpha in this
case and in all three of those groups?

*MR. SIMS:* This would be just DQ-Alpha--

*MR. HARMON:* Just--and I'm not asking you to write it. I just want you
to articulate it for us and then--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. For a particular type?

*MR. HARMON:* For DQ-Alpha 1.1 and 1.2.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. Would you like the range?

*MR. HARMON:* The three groups and then the range.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. The three groups would be the African American group,
the--and would you like a figure for that?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* The African American group for the 1.1, 1.2 would be about 1
in 12. The figure for the Caucasian group would be 1 in 18 and the
figure for the Hispanic group from--would be 1 in 40.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And I'd like to ask you the same question about the
frequencies for those same groups for the D1S80 type that you found, 24, 25.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. 24, 25? Excuse me. For the African American
database--this is just D1S80 type 24, 25. African American would be
about 1 in 47 or 1 in 48 one might round it to. For the Caucasian, it
would be about 1 in 29 and for the Hispanic, it would be about 1 in 36.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And if you would, I'd like you to--strike that. Is
it appropriate based on your review of the scientific literature to
multiply the combined frequencies of the DQ-Alpha type by the D1S80 type?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* What's the nature of the objection?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, it's the issue that you haven't decided. No,
no, no.

*THE COURT:* Wait. DQ-Alpha--

*MR. SCHECK:* Multiplying DQ-Alpha against DS180. That's what you just
told him you were going to decide.

*THE COURT:* No. That was Cellmark's results versus--

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no, no.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's the article that you're about to read, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Yes, I know. I understand. Proceed. Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it appropriate to do so?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what I'd like you to do if you would is
among--or describe the combined frequency of the DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2
and D1S80 type 24, 25 in those three groups again.

*MR. SIMS:* In those three groups?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* For the--for the African American data, it would be about 1
in--1 in 572--or I'm sorry--about 1 in 570 I would round that to. For
the Caucasian group, it would be about 1 in 520 and for the Hispanic
group, it would be about 1 in 1400.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What I would like you to do now is-- would it be
appropriate to give the jury an appreciation to describe the range of
those three groups from just the more common to the rarest?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to the word "appropriate."

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you please write, as Dr. Cotton did, the more common
type to the less common type and leaving out the one in the middle?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could we move on to the glove board, the results
board, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That would be 272-A.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* As well as could we have B up there, the photo board?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* I have a few questions that--while we're--

*THE COURT:* Go ahead.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, let's talk about--you described very well the
mixtures and the significance of the observations on some of these
mixtures. But is there some difficulty in expressing some sort of
frequency estimate when one has mixtures of the kinds that you described?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That raises certain issues.

*MR. HARMON:* And what are those issues? Well, those issues are about
who could have contributed which of the particular alleles in question.

*MR. HARMON:* And are there assumptions involved in deciding how these
mixtures should be calculated?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And have you calculated frequency estimates for the
mixtures and the results that you produced in this case and included
them in your report?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Why not?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the--the mixtures are subject to certain assumptions.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, excuse me. I'm sorry. I would object to this
testimony. I think the Court's ruled on this.

*THE COURT:* On a foundational basis at this point?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there a scientific basis for your decision not to
calculate mixture estimates in your report?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Again, foundational grounds.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* What if any basis is there for your decision not to
calculate frequencies for the mixtures that you've found--

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, objection. Ask for a sidebar on this.

*THE COURT:* Overruled on the request for a sidebar. Objection sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it a simple proposition for you to calculate the
frequencies for any of the mixtures that you found in the glove?

*MR. SCHECK:* Same objection.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. You can answer that question.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, any of the--any of the mixtures are not quite simple
when we talk about this glove. There are some assumptions and underlying
data and evaluation of data that is made. It's not just a simple matter
of looking at the numbers.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you feel that the way you have described the data,
either RFLP or PCR, explains the significance or lack thereof of the
mixtures?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* He shouldn't go on.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, if you look on the right-hand column under
"frequency"--and check this if you will--do those shaded areas in the
right-hand column all represent stains for which mixtures were detected
by you in your testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they do.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, let's start out with G3, which is--you've
already described that for the jury. That is not a mixture in your
opinion; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* On G3, the calculation was based--for the RFLP was based on
the finding that there was no indication of a mixture in the RFLP
pattern. I could not exclude the possibility of some trace mixture based
on just the PCR results. So I don't--I don't have a particular
calculation for the PCR, for example, for the possible 1.2.

*MR. HARMON:* And if you did, based on what you observed there, which
you don't feel is really there, would you have to include Mr. Simpson as
the source of that stain?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Objection. Speculative on what he will do if he
had something which he says he doesn't.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. The objection is speculation, counsel.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, let's talk about the significance of the
eight probe RFLP match that matches Ronald Goldman's known reference
type. Have you been--have you calculated the frequency for that eight
probe match among the three major groups?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* And what are those groups again?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, if we can back up for a minute.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* The calculation is actually based on six of the loci. There
are two--the additional loci that I did not include in the statistics for.

*MR. HARMON:* And why was that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, at the time, we didn't have ready access to those
other databases.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. So those are genetic marker tests that you
conducted, but they did not contribute to the frequency estimate; is
that true?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you please describe in the three groups that
you used in describing the frequencies in stain no. 6 at Rockingham the
frequency estimate for that stain G3 from the glove, no. 9, at Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This was based on the six RFLP loci, D1S7, D2S44,
D4S139, DS1510, D10S28 and D17S79.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what are the frequencies in the respective
groups for a match between samples that you found at six genetic markers?

*MR. SIMS:* The profile detected in bloodstain G3 occurs in
approximately 1 in 2.1 billion Caucasians, 1 in 41 billion African
Americans and 1 in 1.2 billion Hispanics.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you go up to the board--I know we didn't leave
you much room--and write the more common frequency and the less common
frequency.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Just to make it really clear, those other two probes,
did they exclude Mr. Goldman as the source of that?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* They continued to show that he matched that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. He matched those loci.

*MR. HARMON:* And you just don't have data from which to derive a
frequency estimate?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't have it readily available.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's talk about the PCR results if you will. Have
you calculated the combined frequency for the DQ-Alpha and D1S80 results
that you obtained on G3?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I did not calculate that based on the possible 1.2
because that was the mixture possibility. So I don't have that figure.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Even though you don't think it's a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, when we're talking about a mixture, as far as
the RFLP pattern, you can clearly see that there is one person's DNA
across those loci. When we talk about the PCR, we have to--we have to
consider the possibility that there may be some traces of DNA from
another individual contributing to the overall pattern. But that's just
because of the relative sensitivity of the PCR as opposed to the RFLP.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And looking on the chart, the next one that appears
to be not a mixture is one that you've described as consistent with
Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, that's--that's based on the DQ-Alpha 1.3, 4.
Again, there was a possible 1.2 in that and then the 24, 24 on the
D1S80, but I did not calculate a PCR for that.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you feel that's a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, on G9 in particular, that particular sample I believe
was actually a piece of tissue from my examination and the way that
sample tested, its appearance and also its behavior in the extraction
process. Now, if there was possibly some traces of blood from another
individual adhering to that, we know that there is a great deal of
mixing going on on this glove. So I couldn't exclude that as an absolute
possibility.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the others--let's look on the chart and make
sure. The others are clearly mixtures?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The others are clearly mixtures.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we have the Bronco board at this time, your Honor,
the Bronco result board and the Bronco photo board? The photo board is
exhibit 172 and the result board is exhibit 260.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, while he's setting up the photo board, could
you look at that and let's focus on the top, LAPD item 24 from the
Bronco instrument panel. You obtained a DQ-Alpha 1.1, 1.2 in that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And would you calculate the frequencies in the three major
groups and then please write on the board the more common and the least
common?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The frequencies are as follows: The African American
frequency for DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.2 is about 1 in 12, the Caucasian is
about 1 in 18 and the Hispanic is about 1 in 40.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you step up to the board and write to the
lowest and the highest, please?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* While you're still up there, would you focus on LAPD
item 30, which is your item 17? That is not a mixture; is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sorry. The item number was?

*MR. HARMON:* 30, the one you have your hand on, the center console item?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That is not a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There was no indication that that was a mixture.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that the same frequency that you found over at
Rockingham on no. 6?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Same types?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that up there? Do you recall what it is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes I do. I'll put it on the board.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And why don't you stay there. 34, in the driver's side
wall, that's the DQ-Alpha 1.1, 1.2, the same result you got on 24 up at
the top?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Same range of frequencies then?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that up there, please.

/(Witness complies.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And with respect to 293 from the Bronco carpet,
driver's side, how would you address that? Is that a mixture or not?

*MR. SIMS:* I would characterize that particular bloodstain as being
from a type 1.1, 1.1 individual. I couldn't rule out the possibility
that there was a trace 1.2, but it was clearly at the trace level. So
the actually type of the stain would be 1.1, 1.1. The D1S80 type would
be 18, 18.

*MR. HARMON:* It's not a mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* It does not indicate to be a mixture based on what we can
say about that particular type.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. That's a new one now. That's the one that's
consistent with Nicole Brown. What is the frequency of those combined
types in the three major groups as you have calculated for Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* For those--excuse me--those three racial groups, the African
American would be about 1 in 8900, the Caucasian would be about 1 in 990
and the Hispanic would be intermediate. That would be about 1 in 1300.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you write the ranges of those combined
frequencies on the board as you have with the other frequency estimates?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And then the next three stains are clearly
mixtures in your opinion, 303, 304 and 305?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Those will be addressed later.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I could do some of the Bundy now if you'd
like. Could we have the Bundy board result board, 259, and the photo
board, 165?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, while Mr. Fairtlough is finding that other
board, let me ask you just a few general questions. Specifically with
respect to the PCR data, within that Dr. Blake's world study, that
compilation, are there actually many other groups other than the three
groups from which you've calculated your statistics?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there are other groups.

*MR. HARMON:* And so if one were interested in a specific Asian group,
for example, could one rely on that to demonstrate a difference in
frequency?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Relevancy.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. One could, for example, look at Asian data. One could
look at native American data.

*MR. HARMON:* And are--in addition to Dr. Blake's published or
disseminated study, are there also frequency studies with these PCR
markers emerging from all around the world?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there are.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. 1054.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Are the range--what are the ranges that you've calculated
here attempting to communicate?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the purpose of putting up this type of data is
twofold. One, it shows us that there is variation among the various
population groups. That's a known fact. And then the second thing is to
get an idea of how--if you look at this broad group of people, how these
frequency estimates are generally uncommon no matter what group you look at.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Move to strike on the previously stated grounds
with respect to this witness.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* And is the number or at least the range of numbers
designed to assist them in deciding how common or uncommon it is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's exactly why we've done this. And I've taken a
similar approach when I was doing the conventional serology. It gives an
idea of what the range is.

*MR. HARMON:* I just want to focus on three samples on here, ones which
only your laboratory tested, items 115, 116 and 117. You've already
described that those results are consistent with Mr. Simpson across all
three of those stains; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And you've already calculated that frequency when you
addressed the Rockingham no. 6 stain. Is it the same frequency from the
Rockingham no. 6 stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you please write that range of frequencies up on the
board?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I have a couple other areas I can cover
before we finish up.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, reflecting back on the Bronco console mixture
results that you obtained, 303, 304, 305--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* --are those mixture results consistent with the wearer of
no. 9, the right-handed glove wiping along the passenger side of the
console?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, do you have a clear--do you have your results in
front of you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you look at your results and look at the
mixture results for no. 9, the glove at Rockingham?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Are the Bronco console mixture results 303 through 305
consistent with having come from the mixture results on no. 9, the
Rockingham glove?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, do the Bronco console results, 303, 304 and 305
show the same relevant mixtures as any of the stains on item no. 9, the
Rockingham right-handed glove?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Again, foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sorry. Could you repeat the question?

*MR. HARMON:* Could I--I haven't asked for a question to be read back
yet. Could I do it this time, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* "Mr. Sims, did the Bronco console results, 303, 304 and 305
show the same mixtures as any of the stains on either item 9, the
Rockingham right-handed glove?"

*MR. SCHECK:* The Court is reading it I take it? Are you reading it?

*THE COURT:* Item nine.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think the actual question had to do with relative
intensity. So--

*THE COURT:* That's why I left out the relevant.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh. You mean you asked a new question.

*MR. SIMS:* When one talks--

*THE COURT:* Yes, I did. I asked I thought a better question.

*MR. HARMON:* It was much better, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. SIMS:* The answer to that is yes, to the Judge's question.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you. Are the PCR results that you obtained on the
right-handed glove, area G10 and G11 and G13, are those consistent with
a person with a type 25 allele depositing blood while removing that
right-handed glove at the notch?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, just a little foundational question. Each of
those stains that I mentioned from the glove all have a 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. That would be G10, G11 and G13.

*MR. HARMON:* And that's one that Mr. Simpson has and neither victims in
this case have; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. Mr. Simpson has that allele, the two victims
do not.

*MR. HARMON:* Are the mixture results surrounding the notch on glove no.
9 that was found at Rockingham consistent with having been removed--with
the glove having been removed by Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. That's really calling for speculation at this point.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I think this might be a good time to break. I
want to finish up those statistics tomorrow before we move on.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a legal issue that
I need to resolve before we move on to the remainder of Mr. Sims
testimony, and it will take me some time to resolve. So we'll break
early as far as the jury is concerned today. Please remember all of my
admonitions; do not discuss the case amongst yourselves, do not form any
opinions about the case, do not conduct any deliberations until the
matter has been submitted to you, do not allow anybody to communicate
with you with regard to the case. We'll see you tomorrow morning at 9:00
o'clock. All right. Mr. Sims, you can step down.

*MR. SIMS:* Thank you, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Tomorrow morning, 8:45. All right. After we've cleared the
jury, I want to see two representatives of counsel with regards to that
one other issue, and then we'll break for the day. And, Mr. Sims, let me
give you back a copy of your article. All right. We'll stand in recess.

/(At 3:40 P.M., an adjournment was taken until, Thursday, May 18, 1995,
9:00 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California,)

Plaintiff,)

Vs.) no. BA097211)

Orenthal James Simpson,)

Defendant.)

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Wednesday, May 17, 1995

Volume 148 pages 27875 through 28089, inclusive

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*APPEARANCES:*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*FOR THE PEOPLE:* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*FOR THE DEFENDANT:* Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan, Esquire
2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California 90067
Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire Shawn
Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los Angeles,
California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian, Esquire
Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck, Esquire
Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C. Thompson,
Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_I N D E X_*

*__*Index for volume 148 pages 27875 - 28089

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Day date session page vol.

Wednesday May 17, 1995 A.M. 27875 148 P.M. 28001 148

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*LEGEND:* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX* of witnesses

*PEOPLE'S* witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Sims, Gary 148 (Resumed) 27880rh (Resumed) 28005rh

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*ALPHABETICAL INDEX* of witnesses

Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Sims, Gary 148 (Resumed) 27880rh (Resumed) 28005rh

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_EXHIBITS_*

*__PEOPLE'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

270-D - Autorad - A11 27886 148

270-E - Autorad - A14 27886 148

270-F - Autorad - A15 27886 148

270-G - Autorad - A22 27886 148

270-H - Autorad - A24 27886 148

271-D - Autorad - A18 27887 148

271-E - Autorad - A19 27887 148

272-A - Posterboard 27949 148 entitled "Rockingham glove blood results"

272-B - Posterboard 27949 148 entitled (Results of DNA analysis:
Rockingham glove"

262-A - Posterboard 27980 148 entitled "Rockingham socks LAPD #13 blood
results"

271-A(1) - Autorad - A16 28002 148 photograph with 9 arrows

