*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1995 9:01 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES: *(Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, counsel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Back on the record in the Simpson matter. Mr. Simpson is
again present before the Court with his counsel, Mr. Cochran, Mr.
Blasier, Mr. Scheck. The People are represented by Mr. Darden and Mr.
Harmon. The jury is not present. All right. Mr. Scheck, are you ready to
proceed to a new area?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Your Honor, are we--just before we do that, we did a
chart last night summarizing the answers that Mr. Sims gave in terms of
approximations based on the hypothetical, and I would like both Mr.
Harmon and--it is going to take ten minutes to print out, but we can
project it on the screen.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's see it.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* It shows the numbers that he gave and put on a chart.

*MR. HARMON:* Looks great to me, but I'm not sure what it is designed to
represent. It would be helpful if we had some transcript references so
we can confirm it. I don't think I'm as agreeable as Mr. Sims. I don't
take their word for anything unless it is in there, your Honor, and a
timely presentation of this. They had it calculated ahead of time. I
don't think it is appropriate to present argumentative material in this
way, somewhat like the redundancy. Kind of like doing your taxes
yesterday, your Honor, and I think the information is in there, and if
they want to have somebody else come in at a later point and explain how
this graph was derived from Mr. Sims' explicit answers to these raw
hypotheticals that were based on some wildly varying considerations, I
think that would be appropriate. But right now on a Friday morning at
five after 9:00 to present this graphic when they could have done this
ahead of time, I don't think it is appropriate.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor--

*THE COURT:* What is the legal basis for your objection?

*MR. HARMON:* It is irrelevant, under 352, it is misleading. It is
argumentative. It is cumulative, that is for sure. I think you intimated
as much by your question to Mr. Scheck, "are you ready to move on?" and
his answer was "yes," but that is not moving on, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, the--one first must get the answers from the
witness. I think we established the basis of the hypothetical clearly
enough through the witness, that these are the kind of calculations he
makes based on the one simple assumption that we gave him with respect
to random distribution of the biological specimens. The point is, is
that this is complex material and until one gets the answers from the
witness and lays everything out, I can't create a chart because it is
not in evidence yesterday. All that I'm trying to do here, is this
is--this is can be reviewed, but these are the numbers he gave yesterday.

They are just put in the form of a graph. Very clearly labeled
approximations based on the Defense hypothetical. I think it is very
hard for people, when you elicit over a thirty-minute period different
amounts in this fashion, to absorb it just hearing it. They need one
simple pictorial representation of exactly what the testimony was, and
the difference between direct and cross is that I can't create this
until I get the answers from the witness. Now that I've got the answers
from the witness, this is an accurate summary in very simple terms of
exactly what he said. They are perfectly free on redirect examination to
challenge the assumptions in the hypothetical, but this is not
non-argumentative and factual representation of what was said yesterday,
so just so they can be seen.

*THE COURT:* As presentation as a piece of evidence, I'm going to
sustain the objection. I find the numbers to be not to my recollection.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well--

*THE COURT:* If you want to remake the graph to conform with the precise
numbers--also, I think that the gradations on it are not sufficiently
precise.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I--

*MR. SCHECK:* In other words, at the top it doesn't look like a 150 or
something?

*THE COURT:* It doesn't look like a 150 to me.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, your Honor--

*THE COURT:* Let's have the jury, please.

*MR. HARMON:* There is a brief thing at side bar, if I could take it up.
It relates to where we are right now. We can do this in two minutes at
the side bar, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Why do we have to do it at the side bar? We don't have the
jury here.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you want me to do it right here?

*THE COURT:* Unless it is a secret.

*MR. HARMON:* I have no secrets, your Honor. I just--the Prosecution has
reason to believe that the Defense visited the crime scene shortly after
the crime, has removed part of stain 115, and I would like the Court
to--I know there have been in camera discussions about discovery that
was provided to you to review and that has been held back in--and I'm
not here to quarrel about that, but I think if--

*THE COURT:* Refresh my recollection. Which stain is 115?

*MR. HARMON:* 115 is one of these rear gate stains. It is the one that
is clearly seen--there was made a big deal at the time of processing. It
is clearly seen on the June 13th photograph. It is the only one that is
clearly visible in the series of photographs at the crime scene. And the
reason there is reason to believe--you know because you have reviewed
the discovery that they have provided to you, and you have seen the
little bit of information that we have been provided by Defense experts
like Dr. Baden and Dr. Lee. In fact, some of these things clearly have
been chopped up and segments taken out of it, and if you look and
compare the June 13th photograph with the July 3rd photograph--I would
be happy to provide these to you--on July 3rd the stain on 115 that you
can see on June 13th, it appears--and I'm only looking at this and we've
had experts look at this from enhancements--that there is something
missing in the July 3rd photograph that was not there on the June 13th
photograph. And this Court is well aware of the authority of People
versus Meredith that has been affirmed throughout this state, that is 29
Cal.3D 682 at 694, that if the Defense takes possession of physical
evidence--I mean that is what this whole thing with the mystery knife
was that was played out over many months--they have an affirmative
obligation to turn that over. Now, I don't know that that happened,
because so much has been withheld from us, but we know they were at the
crime scene because we have these scanty notes to that effect. But I
would like the Court very simply to assure itself, through in camera
discussions or whatever, perhaps rereviewing that, that if they took
that evidence, they have an affirmative obligation, and they had it the
day they took it, if they took it--I don't know if they took it--but now
is the time to start fessing up if they did, and it is clear the
implications of that, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Scheck, do you want to address that issue?

*MR. SCHECK:* The photographs that the Prosecution took on two different
days indicates that bloodstain 116, that is there on July 3rd, isn't
there on June 13th? Now, everything he said has the fact that there is
something on that rear gate.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, the issue is, is the Defense in possession of
any physical evidence from the crime scene at Bundy?

*MR. SCHECK:* Is the Defense in possession of any physical evidence? No,
not to my knowledge. I--I have no idea what this man is talking about.

*THE COURT:* All right. Well, then I will ask Mr. Douglas to--because
under Meredith if do you have possession of physical evidence, you are
obligated to turn that over to the Court.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, could the Court review--I mean, there are
clear things that were chopped up out of order when--I can't remember
the date, I think it was June 17th, when they visited the crime scene.
They were clearly there. And I would like the Court to make its own
inquiry and rereview that material, and I will clearly abide by that,
but it is clear we do not have everything that was in those notes and
the sequence of the chopping is very intriguing.

*THE COURT:* Well, Mr. Douglas is the person in charge of the discovery
matters for the Defense. Mr. Douglas, I will direct you to make an
inquiry, search of your records, and report back to the Court on Monday.

*MR. DOUGLAS:* Yes, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, we have a new chart just for a second.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you want to see the new chart?

*THE COURT:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* I have not seen it, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think they just put the numbers in, so it is clear.

*THE COURT:* Let's proceed. Let's have the jury, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Sims, would you resume the witness stand, please.

/Gary Sims, the witness on the stand at the time of the evening
adjournment, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Good morning, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, you are reminded you are still under oath. And
Mr. Scheck, you may continue with your cross-examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you, your Honor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen
of the jury.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*_CROSS-EXAMINATION (RESUMED) BY MR. SCHECK_*

*__MR. SCHECK:* Good morning, Mr. Sims. How are you this morning?

*MR. SIMS:* Good morning. I'm fine.

*MR. SCHECK:* We left off yesterday talking about the amounts of DNA in
samples found at the Bundy crime scene, some from June 13th, some from
July--one from July 3rd.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in terms of RFLP testing, your protocol indicates
that would you like to have as much as 150 nanograms to do an RFLP test?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, we would like to have even more than that if we could
get it. It makes the turn-around time a lot faster.

*MR. SCHECK:* But the statement in your protocol is that your--you are
ideally looking for at least 150 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I believe that--that misstates the protocol.

*MR. SCHECK:* You tell me.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, what we would like to have is at least 50, but if we
had our druthers, we would like to put, say, about 400 on the gel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. But it would be a fair statement that 50 nanograms
is about as low as you like to go with an RFLP test?

*MR. SIMS:* With--with some of the newer probes we are even getting down
into the 25 nanogram range. Dr. Budwole from the FBI has recently
published an article in which one of the newer probes, dF5S110 was shown
to be as sensitive as down to 25 nanograms, maybe even ten nanograms, so
that sensitivities have been improved on some of the probes, but, yes,
ideally we would like about 50 at minimum.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, you recall discussing these issues in August?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in August did you indicate that 50 nanograms is about
as low as we like to go with the RFLP procedures? In other words, the
sensitivity is pretty weak below 50 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, would you agree that in a drop of blood there is
about a thousand nanograms of human DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The recovery would be--in a drop of blood would be
about a thousand nanograms, which is about a microgram of DNA, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in a microliter of DNA you would have--expect to find
about 20 nanograms?

*THE COURT:* Microliter of DNA.

*MR. SCHECK:* Microliter of blood, my apologies.

*MR. SIMS:* In a microliter of blood, yes, it would be about 20 nanograms.

*MR. SCHECK:* And a microliter of blood would produce a spot about the
size of a pin head?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So these Bundy drops at best, 52, has the human DNA
equivalent to a pin head's worth of blood?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, that is argumentative. It is vague.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Assuming that no. 52--that is the LAPD item
number from which the RFLP was performed.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Assuming that that has on the order of 25 to 30 nanograms
of human DNA--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That is an improper hypothetical, inconsistent
with the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Assuming it has something on the order of 31.5
nanograms of human DNA--

*MR. HARMON:* Same objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, you would agree that 20 nanograms would come from
one microliter of blood?

*MR. SIMS:* One fresh microliter of blood, not necessarily a bloodstain.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. One fresh microliter of blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Right.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is the size of a pin head?

*MR. SIMS:* That is right, but now you are talking about a volume of
blood, as opposed to if you were to spot about--I think I mentioned
yesterday, if you were to look at a bloodstain of about a millimeter by
a millimeter, which is about a pin head, you would usually recover about
two nanograms, so it is the recovery is not always the same. I mean, it
is one thing to talk about a stain and how much DNA you would get out of
a stain versus if you were to look at the DNA in a volume of liquid blood.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right.

*MR. SIMS:* There is a difference.

*MR. SCHECK:* There is a difference, and the difference is--has to do
with the DNA contents of the volume you are dealing with?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it is--no. What I'm trying to distinguish a volume of
liquid whole blood--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* --and what you can extract out of that versus what you
typically would get out of a bloodstain on a garment or something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* But the point is, is that to the extent that you put an
amount of--you extract DNA from an amount of blood, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* The amount of DNA you can get out of the amount of--the
volume of blood is dependent on the number of cells within that volume
of blood from which you can extract DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if you have blood with a comparatively high content of
DNA per volume, you are going to get a bigger yield?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so if you cross-contaminate a degraded sample with
blood that has more DNA, you are going to get a bigger yield from the
contaminant that has a greater amount of DNA in that volume of blood?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That misstates the testimony and it is compound.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I'm not sure I understand that question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's try it again. You have a degraded sample,
okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let's do it this way: There are volumes of blood
that have higher DNA content than other volumes of blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. We saw that in this case, for example, with the
reference sample.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so if there is a transfer of a volume of blood with a
high natural content on to a sample where the DNA has been degraded to
the point where it is not detectable--are you with me?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --you are going to get a yield in terms of nanograms of
DNA that might be, for example, higher than you would expect to find on
a blood swatch that had been degraded?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I think I understand. I was following you well until
the very end there. Are you saying that if you took a blood volume of
liquid from a person that had a high level of DNA and then that got onto
the degraded stain, then that would be higher than if you took a person
that had a lower level of DNA to begin with and got that onto the stain?

*MR. SCHECK:* Going back to that whole discussion we had yesterday,
remember the charts about some volumes of blood have higher DNA content
than others?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think what you are saying is some people at
different times their bloods are different. For example, you may have
more white blood cells than I have. Is that what you are saying.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. I'm lost.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm talking about you agreed, I think you are saying, that
you would expect to find, for example, in a reference tube, in the
volume of blood in a reference tube, higher yield of DNA content from a
volume than you would from a stain that had been picked up off a dirty
substrate and put in a plastic bag and degraded for seven hours, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Oh, yes, yes. The answer to that is yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. So when you take blood from samples that have a
higher DNA content, assume the blood has a higher DNA content, you
cross-contaminate it onto something else that has virtually no DNA
content or not a detectable DNA content, you are going to get the yield
from the volume of blood that has the higher DNA content?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, compound, and it is unintelligible.

*THE COURT:* Do you understand the question, Mr. Sims?

*MR. SIMS:* Actually that one I think I do.

*THE COURT:* All right. Go ahead.

*MR. SIMS:* I think the answer to that is yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you. Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You talked yesterday about substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And Mr. Harmon asked you a lot of questions about that. Do
you recall those?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And one purpose you talked about of a substrate
control is to swatch a section near a stain in order to see if there is
some cellular material near that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In other words, if there may be some background DNA
that may contribute to what you might see in a stain.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. But you were suggesting that a substrate control
could also serve another purpose in terms of being--giving us some
information about the possibility of cross-contamination in the handling
of samples?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, it is argumentative what he was suggesting.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Were you asked a series of questions yesterday
by Mr. Harmon and you gave answers indicating that you thought the
substrate controls could be looked at to give us some information about
the possibility of cross-contamination in the handling of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. I don't remember what the basis was, your
Honor. That is misleading. That misstates his testimony of yesterday.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think it doesn't just give you some information. I
think it gives you a great deal of information about how those samples
were processed.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. You were asked questions about--well, I forget
how you were asked questions. Let's try it this way: You gave testimony
that the substrate controls might give us information about whether or
not laboratory criminalists, when they handled the swatches at the crime
laboratory, cross-contaminated samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that would include the point where the swatches were
taken out of--were wet and taken out of the plastic bags with the
test-tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Assuming they went through the entire process.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it would include the portion of the process where the
wet swatches were put into the test-tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it would include the part of the process where the
next morning the swatches were taken out of the test-tubes with the pipette?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, assuming they all went through the same possess.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it would include that part of the process where the
swatches were then folded into the bindles?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, the same answer.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, looking at that portion of the process,
your--the answers you gave yesterday to the questions were based
specifically on the assumption that the substrate controls, I think
these were your words, were systematically alternated between the
specimen sample and the substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that was my understanding.

*MR. SCHECK:* You used the word "systematically alternated," correct?

*THE COURT:* Wait, wait, wait.

*MR. SCHECK:* I thought he finished.

*THE COURT:* You walked over his answer. He wasn't finished yet.

*THE COURT:* Also, Mr. Sims, take a breath before you start answering
his questions.

*MR. SIMS:* All right.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I--my answer was that my understanding was that they
were systematically taken in these steps.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let's put it another way. You were basing your
answers on the assumption that the criminalist systematically alternated
between handling the specimen, then the substrate control, then the
series of specimen swatches, the substrate control, the series of
specimen swatches, the substrate control, et cetera, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the reason that that is--and that is the critical
assumption to your notion that these substrate controls can tell
us--give us information about cross-contamination?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That misstates his testimony, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. The idea of a control giving you information
about cross-contamination is that the control must be handled in
parallel or in the same way that you handled the specimens.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, that is vague. What context, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, my answer to that would be that whenever you are
processing samples, whether it be stains, substrate controls, stains,
one does look to the order of the processing, because if the inference
is that something here cross-contaminated the next one, then it doesn't
make sense that this one down here was cross-contaminated from something
up here. Do you understand what I'm saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. Oh, precisely, and that is the reason your--that is
the reason that you are saying that one might be able to draw
conclusions about cross-contamination, is because you are assuming that
there was systematic alternation in the handling of the specimens? In
other words, the substrate controls were handled in parallel in a
systematic alternation with the specimens?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is vague in terms of what is in parallel in
what part of the process we are talking about.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Do you understand the question?

*MR. SIMS:* I think I do. I think if you are talking about just the
substrate controls, then the alternation is part of that. What I was
talking about, too, though, is--is that you are looking at how things
are processed and the idea of what could potentially get contaminated
down the line.

*MR. SCHECK:* But your--

*MR. SIMS:* So that would be stain, stain, stain, too.

*MR. SCHECK:* But your answers yesterday, you used the word with respect
to the questions, you are assuming that the substrate controls and the
specimens were handled with a systematic alternation?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, your Honor. That is vague in terms of if there
are different terms that have--

*THE COURT:* Overruled. We have asked that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's talk about--let's just talk about just, for example,
a reagent control.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* The reagent control is the one where you are at the point
of extraction in the PCR process?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you are putting into the tubes the different reagents
that go into the PCR mix?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So you have one tube, for example, that has the--maybe a
specimen that has a swatch with blood on it?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that what happens?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The only thing I think we mixed up on was when you
mentioned the PCR mix. You are actually talking about the extraction now.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Yes. It is--

*MR. SIMS:* The extraction.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm talking about the stuff you put into the tube.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. This is now to get the DNA out of the samples?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* So that is an extraction.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* But the reagent control is that you take a tube without
any swatch in it and you put the reagents in it, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you do that, you do it in parallel with all the
other specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, you are actually doing it in sequence.

*MR. SCHECK:* In sequence, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In other words, you are going to make sure that you are
taking the reagents to make up this control from the same batch, same
lots, the same time, as you are creating the reagents for the other
tubes, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is what gives you some confidence that the
control would work, because you are running that reagent control in
parallel or handling in the same way that you are handling all the other
specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is what gives you the information about whether
or not there may be some contaminant in the reagents that were used?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So it would--it would be of no particular use if you took
the reagents from a run you did in the afternoon and then used--and ran
that one, that wouldn't tell you about whether you had contamination on
a previous run, would it?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I'm not sure I understand that, because aren't we
talking about the same reagents?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, that would be the question. Are we talking about
the--let me--let me get it in another way.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* If the substrate controls here were not handled with
systematic alternation--are you with me?

*MR. SIMS:* As far as the evidence processing now?

*MR. SCHECK:* As far as the handling of the evidence is concerned, all
right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And let's say that a series of specimen swatches were
handled in a batch.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And maybe a series of control swatches were handled in a
batch.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That would not be the kind of systematic alternation you
were talking about yesterday?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, improper hypothetical, misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* In other words, if the substrate controls were processed
entirely differently from the swatches themselves? Is that what you are
saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the--we don't need the word "entirely." let's just
say some of them were handled in a batch together and a series of
specimen items were handled in a batch together.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That is vague. Together with what?

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Does this--I guess what I'm confused on is do you mean now
in the collection process also or are you talking about just in the
laboratory or--

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm talk--let's just focus. I'm sorry, I didn't mean to
cut you off. Let's just focus on handling in the laboratory.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the substrate controls were not handled with
systematic alternation as you discussed yesterday.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would that not undermine the value of the substrate
controls in terms of giving us any information about cross-contamination
in the handling of the specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* I think it would--you would have to say you don't have as
much information there, that is true.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in order to make sure that a substrate control is
serving as more than just a control about what came from the substrate,
but as a control about--a control that gives you information about
cross-contamination, it would be a good thing if the criminalists
involved understood that the substrate control would serve that function?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, objection. It is irrelevant, beyond the scope
of direct.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because you are counting on the criminalists involved to
carefully systematically alternate their handling of the specimen
samples and the substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, no. I'm counting on the criminalist to do everything
that the criminalist does in a careful fashion. What you are asking me
is can I make as much inference about how these things were handled
retroactively given a particular nature? Yes. I mean, that is--I'm not
counting on that as much as I'm counting on them handling it in a
careful fashion all the way down.

*MR. SCHECK:* You are counting on them handling it in a careful fashion
and doing systematic alternation. That was the way you answered the
questions yesterday?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I'm saying if you are going to place that great reliance
on those substrate controls, on the negative results from the substrate
control, if you are going to use that as an inference that then these
things were processed properly, then that is correct. On the other hand,
just because that wasn't done, it doesn't mean they weren't done properly.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the--you would agree that to do this it would be
useful to ensure that there really was systematic alternation in the
handling of the substrate controls and the specimens if the criminalist
performing that operation knew that it was important to systematically
alternate?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And systematic alternation of the substrate controls as a
check on cross-contamination should continue not just in the handling of
the samples in the laboratory, but through the process where you extract
the DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it should continue in the process of sending substrate
controls of--of cutting up specimens and substrate controls and sending
them to other laboratories?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That is argumentative, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. It goes beyond the scope of direct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's try this.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Which board is this, Mr. Scheck?

*MR. SCHECK:* That was my mistake. It is exhibit no. 177-C, "LAPD
evidence disposition summary."

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Now, the Los Angeles Police Department sent you, DOJ,
sample 47, the Bundy swatch on August 12th, 1994?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that's correct, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they sent you on August 12th, 1994, sample 48,
another--some Bundy swatches, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And 49 on August 12th, `94, they sent you Bundy swatches,
right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And on August 12th they sent you no. 50, some Bundy swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they actually sent--now, 52 was at cellmark, right?
You didn't get that on August 12th?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* But looking at this board you see these--these logos where
that is the swatch with red, that represents the bloodstain swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* They didn't send you the substrate controls until
September 7, 1994, for sample 47, 48, 49 or 50?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* In fact, Mr. Sims, didn't you call the people at the Los
Angeles Police Department and say, "send me the substrate controls
because substrate controls ought to be handled with systematic
alternation with the specimens as a protection against cross-contamination"?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sure I didn't use those words, but I--as I recall,
I'm--a little bit of history here. This case originally started out
looking as an RFLP case because those swatches from the Bundy crime
scene looked like very good bloodstains to work with in their appearance--

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, let me--I don't mean to--to be impolite to you
at all, forgive me, but I think the answer is not responsive.

*MR. HARMON:* Motion to strike, your Honor. I object to the speech, your
Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Move to strike his answer as nonresponsive.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you answer the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* My question is, sir, a very simple one. Did you ask the
Los Angeles Police Department to send you the substrate controls
in--after you had first received the specimen controls without the
substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know if I asked the LAPD or if I put that request
through Lisa Kahn of the District Attorney's office.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in other words, you put the request into the District
Attorney's office to pass on to the LAPD to ask them to send you the
substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* I may have done that, yes. I don't know if--I may have
spoken to LAPD. I can't recall who I contacted.

*MR. SCHECK:* The point is, sir, you wanted the substrate controls,
didn't you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you wanted the substrate controls because when you
were performing DNA analysis you were going to make sure to
systematically alternate your handling of the substrate controls and the
specimen items?

*MR. SIMS:* No, that is not true. The reason I wanted the substrate
controls was because there was clearly a PCR issue and I wanted to make
sure that we had negative substrate controls to make the proper
interpretations of the bloodstains.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you got the substrate controls in September and you
went through the rest of the analysis, you would treat the substrate
control in parallel with the specimen when performing your DNA analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for most of this evidence I did, but I did some
processing of those early samples without the substrate controls.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because you didn't have them?

*MR. SIMS:* Because I did not have them.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if you had them you would have processed the substrate
controls in the same fashion that you processed the specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I would.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "in the same fashion" is vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Now, talking about the issue of substrate controls, you
performed analysis on Mr. Goldman's shirt?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* Actually I think I'm finished with this board.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Maybe while I'm playing with the board, could you maybe
turn to your notes on that item.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* That would be LAPD item 81.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you attempted to take a substrate control from the shirt?

*MR. SIMS:* Well to--

*MR. SCHECK:* To cut one, I should say?

*MR. SIMS:* The correction on that would be that LAPD submitted a
substrate control along with cuttings from the shirt, so I tested the
cuttings.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. So in other words, they cut an area which was
labeled "substrate control" from the shirt; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you performed a PCR analysis of that substrate control?

*MR. SIMS:* Actually that was performed by Renee Montgomery, but our
laboratory did, yes, it was for D1S80 PCR marker.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you got a result of 18, 18 for that substrate control?

*MR. SIMS:* We characterized that as a trace of the 18 allele, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that would be a genotype consistent with the DNA from
Nicole Brown Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it would.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is on Mr. Goldman's shirt?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And did you examine the substrate control itself, that
cutting?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* And did you see what appeared to be blood flakes on that
shirt?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. My notes on page 158 indicate that.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in other words, in the substrate control on Mr.
Goldman's shirt you found flakes of blood which, using PCR typing, you
were able to determined a result that was consistent on the D1S80 system
with Nicole Brown Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, would that be consistent with--withdrawn. You talked
about how substrate controls can be evidence of samples being
cross-contaminated?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would this finding you made on the substrate control be
evidence that Mr. Goldman's shirt had been cross-contaminated with
clothing from Nicole Brown Simpson?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, calls for speculation; no foundation, improper
hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* The--can you repeat exactly what you were saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* Sure.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would this finding on the substrate control of Mr.
Goldman's shirt be consistent with there having been a
cross-contamination with this shirt and clothing of Nicole Brown Simpson
that had her blood on it?

*MR. SIMS:* Would it be consistent with that? In other words, is that a
possibility?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I would say that is one possibility, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Other possibilities are that Mr. Goldman's body was
dragged across the crime scene into an area where it came into contact
with blood from Nicole Brown Simpson?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Calls for speculation.

*MR. SCHECK:* On--you also got a control--did you--with respect to
Nicole Brown Simpson's dress--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --did you receive a substrate control cuttings or did you
make some?

*MR. SIMS:* On that particular item, I sampled--I did the sampling. I
did not take a substrate control on that particular item because it was
very bloody. The entire garment was--appeared to have blood and it would
seem to be hard to find an area with absolutely no blood on it.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you did take three cuttings labeled G3, G5--G3, G5 and
what would be the other one?

*MR. SIMS:* How about G6 maybe.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. And these were cuttings from around the right
shoulder area?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, the right upper back.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you performed a D1S80 analysis on those cuttings, or
Miss Montgomery did?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you got a finding of an 18 allele and a 24 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* We--on one of the cuttings, G3, it was an 18 allele with a
weaker 24 allele, indicating a mixture. On G5 and G6 the type it was
determined to be 18, 18 with a trace of the 24th allele.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that would--that mixture would be consistent with DNA
typings of Nicole Brown Simpson, which for D1S80 are 18, 18?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And traces of--of DNA from Ronald Goldman whose type for
the D1S80 system is 24, 24?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I have another question that I want to ask
this witness, but before I do I think I need to seek some guidance from
the Court.

*THE COURT:* All right. With the court reporter, please.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We are over at the side bar. Where are you
going with this?

*MR. SCHECK:* I have a question that I'm fearful night open a door, so I
want to explain what the issues are and I'm going to seek a preliminary
ruling from the Court to see whether I should go into this area or not.
There were--I think there were two--there was a specimen taken from no.
11, the wire, at Rockingham.

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* There was some specimen swatches that were labeled no. 11
specimen and then there were swatches taken from the wire that were
labeled control. When Mr. Sims examined these, both of them appear to be
grayish whitish swatches; however, he performed a--what they call an
otolidine test which is another form of the presumptive blood test, and
when he performed that presumptive blood test he got a positive finding
for the swatch that was in the control bindle, but he got a negative
finding for the swatch that was in the specimen bindle. The question
that I want to ask him is simply was there--when he was examining the
sample, the specimens, bindles from LAPD, was there an item where he had
concerns that the control sample had been put in the specimen bindle and
the specimen had been put in the control bindle. Now, there were no
other tests that were done or could be done on these swatches to confirm
whether or not it was blood.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, if I ask him those questions and he answers, yes, I
had a concern and my concern was in no. 11 because the information I had
was that there was--it was a concern that they had mixed up putting the
specimen in the specimen bindle and the control in the--the specimen in
the control bindle and vice versa, is that going to open the door to
allowing them to ask or even having the witness say that they performed
a presumptive test on the swatch indicating it was blood, even though
there is no confirmatory tests on this blood.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, I don't think it will open a door, it will blow it
off the hinges and knock off the dead bolt, but other than that, other
than being beyond the scope of direct examination, it clearly allows us
to go back to the positive phenolphthalein on the sink drain, that in
spite of all the other door openings that they did before you refused to
let us get into, so beyond the scope and blowing the door off the hinges
are two things to keep in mind, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Certainly not beyond the scope on the issues of controls,
but--and the ability to use them. My concern really was for the Court to
make a ruling. I certainly expected Mr. Harmon to say it would open the
door. My concern is whether the Court believes it would open the door. I
would propose to ask the witness just the question did you have reason
to believe that there was a mispackaging of control specimens with
respect to one item and which one was it? No. 11?

*THE COURT:* All right. The problem, though, is first of all, that that
opens up I think legitimately going into what was done--the Prosecution
would be entitled to explain what actual testing was done on that
particular swatch and what the results were, which I think we all agree
are not really relevant to the circumstances of this particular case, so
looking at the totality of the case here, the probative value of what
you are offering and the consumption of the time that would be taken up
by the Prosecution then explaining what this is, I'm going to sustain
the objection under 352. Also notice and give you caution that if you go
into it, that then we are going to get into what the presumptive testing
was, not necessarily the bathroom stain--I mean the bedroom--bathroom
drain, but certainly on the wire itself.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. So incidentally just on, you know--thank you. I just
wanted to make sure.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* The other thing, just to--please don't hold me completely
to this, but just to in terms--I knew you mentioned undue consumption of
time. I think I have a pretty firm grasp on how long this witness is
going to take me in fear of his vacation. I will be with him this
morning and I think I will be with him probably Monday morning, maybe
not the whole morning, but Monday morning. That is my best estimate.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then that is it, so just to give you a sense.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Yes, yes. We--I do want--we have another chart.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Modified.

*MR. SCHECK:* Modified chart.

*THE COURT:* Well, maybe at the break.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. When are we breaking? At 10:30?

*THE COURT:* Yes, and only for ten minutes.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, counsel. Mr. Scheck, you may proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, you discussed yesterday a study by the Federal
Bureau of Investigation concerning efforts to induce cross-contamination
in the handling of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think at one point you talked about how this FBI study,
they had FBI agents coughing over samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't know that they were FBI agents. I think they
were actually laboratory people that were not necessarily agents, but yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Laboratory people working for the FBI?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--I believe that work was done mainly by Dr. Comey
who is an employee of the FBI, and I think it was a woman by the name of
Pamela Fish who I believe is with the Chicago Police Department. I think
those are the two that did those experiments.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, is there--to your knowledge there is no such thing as
a standardized cough by either FBI employees or employees of the Chicago
Police Department?

*MR. SIMS:* No, not that I am aware of.

*MR. SCHECK:* But there is a difference between a cough and a sneeze,
isn't there?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And a sneeze is more likely--forgive my bringing up the
details of this, but to--to give you an effluent or a spray than a cough?

*MR. SIMS:* It could, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And to your knowledge they didn't even--they did not
sneeze on any samples?

*MR. SIMS:* To my knowledge I don't recall that being in the table, no.
I think it was more of a cough.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, there was discussion in that study of saliva?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they did find that saliva, mixed with blood, that
actually the amount of DNA that you will get from the saliva mixture is
two times the amount that you would get from the blood?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall it being two times, but yes, the saliva could
make a big contribution.

*MR. SCHECK:* And scientifically that makes sense to you, doesn't it,
because saliva, in terms of its volume, has a higher concentration of
DNA than blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think saliva can have a lot of DNA in it because of
the cells that line the mouth, but there is a tremendous variation, just
as there is from cough to cough, from spit to spit.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, in general, no matter who--if you compare somebody's
spit to somebody's blood, right, in equal volumes, you are going to find
more DNA in the spit than the blood?

*MR. SIMS:* You may well find more, but again, it varies.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, in blood, the DNA comes from the white cells?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the--but over fifty percent of the cellular material
in blood is red cells?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, something like that--what did you say? Yes, well over
fifty percent.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well over fifty percent?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the red cells do not have a nucleus?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* So they don't have DNA in them?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the DNA in the blood comes from the white cells?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is about one percent of the cellular material in
blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Something like that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And just to illustrate it, the kind of things you do in
the laboratory, there is something called a centrifuge?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so you would take like a test-tube of blood and you
would spin it around?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And what would happen is that the cellular material would
go to the bottom of the tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the red cells tend to sediment and then the white
cells tend to form a layer on top.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. So you see a sediment of the red cells at the
bottom of the tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, and occupying a lot of the tube at that point.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then there is a thin film that I think people in your
line of work call a buffy coat?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That is called the buffy coat.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is where you will have the white blood cells?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* There is some sort of yellowish material that is the
serum, the platelets?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, the serum is the plasma.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's take a centrifuge tube and spin it around with saliva.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And at the bottom of that you would see a sediment of the
epithelial cells, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* The epithelial cells are the cells from skin?

*MR. SIMS:* Also they are the ones that line the mouth.

*MR. SCHECK:* The inside of the mouth?

*MR. SIMS:* Right. They are different from the ones that would be on
your epidermis, for example.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And the epithelial cells that you get from the
saliva, if you looked at the bottom of the test-tube, that would be what
you would see at the bottom?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so if you were to just take a volume of blood and a
volume of saliva, typically, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Spin it around in those tubes, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You look at that buffy coat which would be the amount of
the white cells or the amount of DNA you could get out of that volume of
blood, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Right.

*MR. SCHECK:* And typically compare it to the other two where you would
have the cells from--the epithelial cells from the saliva, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In the same volumes, you would expect to see more DNA from
the epithelia cells than the saliva, typically?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the problem with--with saliva is it is not like blood.
Blood tends to be more typical in that when you draw it out of the arm,
people's blood tend to all look alike. Their DNA might vary, but they
tend to look alike. But saliva varies because we take saliva from
suspects and victims in sexual assault cases, so you look at these
things and you see a lot of variations, but there can be--to make this
short, there can be a significant amount of epithelial cells in saliva.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. So to get back to our FBI study--right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --you would be more likely to find epithelial cells from
the effluent of a sneeze, wouldn't you, than a cough?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, if--if--I mean, you have to remember some people, when
they cough, they really hack a lot, and so they may be producing a lot
of phlegm.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, all right. Well, let's--getting to the bottom line
here, in terms of this FBI study, you think it might have been a
reasonable idea, instead of having some undefined kind of coughing, to
have somebody sneeze?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, it is irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. The answer will stand. Proceed.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I think--

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --talking again about the FBI study, bottom line here, the
samples involved in that study, right, the--the samples that they were
looking at in terms of trying to see whether they were
cross-contamination did not involve degraded samples, did it?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. That is my understanding.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the discussion that we have been having here has to do
with the possibility of cross-contamination of one set of samples that
are degraded?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you gave some testimony about false positives versus--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --versus false negatives?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you were asked is it your opinion that a typing error
in the from process is more likely to result in a false exclusion than
an inclusion?

*MR. SIMS:* Generally, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, that was the question you were asked yesterday, if
you recall?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, your experience is in forensic DNA typing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I take it that your answer was based on your
experience in forensic DNA typing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you are doing forensic DNA typing, typically that
involves a case where you will get a result, a DNA result, and then it
will be introduced in court with respect--and maybe against somebody who
is accused?

*MR. SIMS:* Or it may well give a result that exonerates some person.

*MR. SCHECK:* It can happen. But when it is being used for purposes of
incrimination, it is used for--let's put it this way: Talking about
false positives and false negatives?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* There are many situations where you will have what we
would characterize as a positive result, that is, there is a consistency
between DNA typing found on some sample and a person that is accused and
that would be called, let's say, a, quote, positive result?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, you could use it in that context.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you had that in mind when you are answering the false
positive question yesterday?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in a--when you are using PCR typing for purposes of
making a diagnosis in a clinical test--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* You were asked yesterday in this connection about--you
made reference to an article by Mr.--Dr. Sensabaugh concerning, umm,
false positive rates and PCR typing?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That misstates the testimony. There was no such
testimony on rates, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know what the false positive rates are for PCR
typing in clinical medicine?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know--you were asked questions comparing forensic
typing in DNA typing in forensics and clinical medicine yesterday by Mr.
Harmon?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And let's just talk about what you do know with
respect to the use of forensic typing in clinical medicine.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if PCR typing in clinical medicine is used to
do a diagnosis of, let's say, some--you know what a pap smear is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. A situation where you--an analysis might be
done on a pap smear to see whether or not somebody might have a tumor
that is either malignant or benign?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, irrelevant, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* In--when PCR typing is used as a screening device in
clinical medicine, do you know if it is used in situations to make an
assessment as to whether or not somebody, umm--where you will make a
prediction based on the typing result as to whether or not somebody has,
let's say, a certain genetic disease?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is irrelevant, beyond the scope, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if in clinical medicine, using PCR typing, one
can make a comparison of what the DNA typing result is and compare it
later to whether or not the typing result accurately predicted the outcome?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Foundation. Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know--I'm asking him if he knows.

*THE COURT:* It is beyond the scope as well, counsel.

*MR. SCHECK:* In a--using forensic DNA typing in the context of a
criminal case, the only way that you can find out if you had a false
positive is if some other evidence emerges afterwards which would
indicate that the DNA typing was incorrect?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is argumentative, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, you are aware of the CACLD studies?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in the first round of CACLD studies two laboratories,
cellmark, forensic sciences associates, got false positives?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, beyond the scope, no foundation, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if cellmark and forensic sciences associates--

*THE COURT:* Counsel, I'm staining the objection on a hearsay basis at
this point.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you read the results, the report of the CACLD study?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is irrelevant, beyond the scope.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just first question.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you read reports of that study?

*MR. SIMS:* I have read some information about that study, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. And the information that you have read about that
study, do you rely upon it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is relied on what for what reason?

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you relied upon it in forming your opinion about the
reliability of forensic DNA typing?

*THE COURT:* Still vague, counsel, relied on what? What article
specifically?

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you relied on the literature you have read concerning
the CACLD studies?

*THE COURT:* Still sustained. We are not identifying what it is that we
are referring to.

*MR. SCHECK:* What is it that you have read with respect to the CACLD
studies?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for example, Dr. Blake--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That may call for hearsay. That does call for
hearsay, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* No. What he has read regarding the CACLD study is not
hearsay. Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* You may answer.

*MR. SIMS:* I know, for example, that Dr. Blake mentioned it in the case
work article, the experience he had and why it was better--why he found
it was better to shift to the reverse dot-blot.

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. The only question is what have you read with
regards to the CACLD study? Dr. Blake's article. We have established that.

*MR. SCHECK:* What else have you read?

*MR. SIMS:* I think--I think there is a mention of the CACLD study in
the NRC report and I think there is a mention of it in I recall reading
something about it I think in Dr. Thompson's article.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. In what you've read, would you rely upon these
articles that you've read in terms of their accuracy in reporting what
occurred in the CACLD study.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you rely upon what you've read in terms of forming
your opinion--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me, counsel. The way you are phrasing the question,
it is never going to work.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, okay. Then I have to find another way.

*THE COURT:* I guess so. This doesn't look particularly fruitful here.
The jury has already heard about the CACLD study and has also heard
testimony from cellmark.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right.

*THE COURT:* So let's proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* To your knowledge, in proficiency tests performed by the
CACLD, were there more false positives than false negatives?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, calls for hearsay. It is beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall--

*MR. SCHECK:* You can't answer.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sorry.

*MR. SCHECK:* Umm, Mr. Sims, let's discuss for a few minutes the
fingernails.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you told us that you had considerable experience in
conventional serology?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And how many years was that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, in conventional serology I--I actually started doing
conventional serology back in 1976, so I guess I did that for about
fourteen years, something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And have you worked with the EAP system?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I believe you have told us that--well, withdrawn. And
the EAP system looks at enzymes within the red blood cells?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. SCHECK:* And forensic DNA testing with DQ-Alpha or polymarkers
would be looking at nucleated cells, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I think you have already told us that in terms of
blood, only one percent of blood contains the white cells that has the
nuclear DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Something like that. I know that figure a little differently
from my knowledge, but it is on that order.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SIMS:* Blood is mostly red cells, that is the point, and very few
white cells by comparison.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you opened the package--packages that contained the
fingernail scrapings--you received the packages that contained the
fingernail scrapings and the clippings?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you opened them up and you looked at them when you
received them at the lab?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* And at that time you were aware that Mr. Matheson had
conducted EAP testing and conventional serology testing on scrapings?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I was aware of that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And were you aware of his results, reported results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe I was aware of that result.

*MR. SCHECK:* And after looking at those packages, did you then close
them up without conducting any testing on them and send them back to LAPD?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I did close them up, but I didn't send them back at
that point.

*MR. SCHECK:* You closed them up and you didn't perform any testing?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And did you have any discussions with Mr. Matheson after
you closed up the packages?

*MR. SIMS:* I think I did. I'm not positive of that, but I think I did
talk to Mr. Matheson about the fingernail scrapings.

*MR. SCHECK:* And did you suggest that a second EAP test should be run?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, Mr. Sims, have--are you aware of literature that
documents a degradation pattern for the EAP system?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in that literature have you ever--in that literature
is there any degradation pattern that shows that a BA can degrade into a
two-banded b pattern?

*MR. SIMS:* Most of the literature that I am familiar with talks about
what generally happens, although I do recall reading in the literature a
citation for I think it was in the--one of the British laboratories
where they saw a BA being mistyped as a B, and that--I have seen that in
the literature. Not as part of a study, but as some--an observation.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could you answer my question?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, yes, I have seen that in literature.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you seen in the literature any documentation of a
degradation pattern where a BA degrades into a two-banded b pattern?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I don't recall seeing that, unless there may have been
something in one of Dr. Grunbaum's papers, but I can't cite it offhand.

*MR. SCHECK:* And Dr. Sensabaugh is the person that has done, would you
agree, the most extensive work in examining the EAP system?

*MR. SIMS:* I would say that Dr. Sensabaugh knows more about EAP than
just about anybody.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in his published articles have you ever seen anything
that documents a degradation pattern where a BA degrades into a
two-banded b pattern? Anything he has written?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I can't recall seeing that.

*MR. SCHECK:* In your own experience, in all the years that you have
performed conventional serology, have you ever seen a BA degrade into a
two-banded b pattern?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the problem with the EAP marker--I mean, I can recall
generating a lot of inconclusive results with EAP, because it can be a
difficult marker, but--

*MR. SCHECK:* But my question, sir--

*MR. HARMON:* Well, your Honor--

*THE COURT:* Let him finish his answer.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry. Are you finished?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think--I think in order to do that you have to be
assured of what the type is to begin with, if you understand what I'm
saying. In other words, if I have a stain, I have to be sure of the type
to begin with. You would have to do it as a research project.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, I'm just talking about your experience now in
typing. Have you personally ever seen a BA degrade into a two-banded b
pattern? Have you ever seen that? Yes or no?

*MR. SIMS:* Where I knew that it was a BA?

*MR. SCHECK:* Degrade into a two-banded b pattern?

*MR. SIMS:* I can't recall seeing that, no.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, I would like to discuss with you PCR
carry-over contamination.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--your Honor, I'm going to start this, but it is going
to take more than ten minutes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* This, your Honor, is exhibit 1133, Defense 1133.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Now, Mr. Sims, in the PCR amplification process, whether
you are using the DQ-Alpha system, the polymarker system or the D1S80
system, in terms of basic principles, would it be fair to say that what
is happening is one is starting with a certain amount of genetic material?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then what happens is that in the PCR amplification
process itself there is a--what are known as cycles?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could you explain that for us, how that works and how a
piece of starting material, umm, is amplified up into many larger
fragments? Many more fragments, I'm sorry?

*MR. SIMS:* More fragments, right; not larger. The--this is the PCR
process, and I won't go into great detail with this, but what you are
doing is you are starting with a certain amount of what we call template
DNA. In other words, that is the DNA that you extracted from the stain.
And then you are doing what is called amplifying a particular segment of
that DNA, a very small, relatively small portion of that DNA, and you
are using that then to--that repetitive or--or you are making additional
copies of a particular area, then you are making copies from copies and
copies from copies and so on and so on. And that is why you see what we
call this expedential expansion of the number of fragments that you get.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let us assume that the starting material here, all
right, contains DNA for--let's pick the DQ-Alpha system, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in the DQ-Alpha system you have a series of different
alleles?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they are about how many base pairs long for the most part?

*MR. SIMS:* About 240 base pairs, the area of interest.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's assume, for purposes of this, that in
this starting material we are talking about DNA that has the genotype
1.3, 1.3 for the DQ-Alpha system.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in other words, would it be pair to say that when you
begin making the copies from that starting material that with each
different cycle you are producing more and more fragments that are
about, what, 269 base pairs long?

*MR. SIMS:* About 240.

*MR. SCHECK:* 240 base pairs long that are little copies of that 1.3 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And as the cycles go on, you are producing--what is this
number at the end, after 32 cycles?

*MR. SIMS:* It looks like you've got 4 billion 290 million fragments.

*MR. SCHECK:* Fragments?

*MR. SIMS:* Fragments.

*MR. SCHECK:* 290 million fragments of that 1.3 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is 240 base pairs long?

*MR. SIMS:* Base pairs long, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you do that amplification on one of these little
microfuge tubes, after you put it in that thermocycler machine, you are
going to get inside that tube 4 billion 290 million fragments of 1.3?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again it depends on your starting material, but that
is the idea. That is proper.

*MR. SCHECK:* And a single amplification could contain something on the
order of a trillion copies of an amplified target sequence?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't think at our levels that we get up to a trillion
copies. I think maybe a billion is sort of the neighborhood.

*MR. SCHECK:* A billion copies. When we talk about the amplified target
sequence here, we are talking about that 1.3?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And would you agree that that is a staggering
number of molecules?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, no, it is not really a staggering number of molecules,
I mean, if you look at the air, think how many molecules are in the air,
and that sort of thing. It is not a staggering number of molecules; it
is just a large number.

*MR. SCHECK:* Pretty large number, right?

*MR. SIMS:* But not in terms of molecules.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, it is enough to cover many square miles of land if
you just took them out of the tube and spread them out?

*MR. SIMS:* Maybe in a string or something like that, I suppose there
could be something like that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And with the contents of that reaction with these 4
billion 290 million fragments, it is certainly, if it got out of that
tube, could cover a lot of square footage in a laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there could be some significant number of copies, that
is true.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in a DNA laboratory, when you are doing these PCR
tests, you are amplifying up in the tubes these billions of fragments
again and again and again?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, you are--for example, if you did several samples, yes,
each tube would contain those--that large number of fragments, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if some of these fragments--are these fragments one of
these fragments, is it visible to the naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it would be.

*MR. SCHECK:* One of those fragments?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* How small would it be?

*MR. SIMS:* You couldn't see it. You would--you couldn't see it. I mean,
it is extremely tiny. I mean we are talking about things on the
atomic--well, it is not an atom obviously, but several atoms. You can't
see it.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you said it is visible to the naked eye, are you
talking about seeing it under the microscope?

*MR. SIMS:* No, you couldn't see it under the microscope.

*MR. SCHECK:* So you couldn't see it?

*MR. SIMS:* No, you couldn't see it.

*MR. SCHECK:* With that, not being able to visibly see it, your Honor,
we will move on.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a brief
ten-minute recess. Please remember all of my admonitions. Don't discuss
the case amongst yourselves, don't form any opinions about the case,
don't conduct any deliberations until the matter has been submitted to
you. Also, do not allow anybody to communicate with you with regard to
the case. As far as the jury is concerned, we will stand in recess until
nine o'clock. All right. Mr. Sims, you can step down. Monday morning, 8:45.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, your Honor.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. We have another chart I just showed Mr. Harmon.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* My proposal is just to show him this, that is the
numbers he testified to, and introduce it and move on.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* You know, the one that jumps out as being grossly
perverted is 52. Robin Cotton, as I recall, said 25 to 60. So--I mean--

*MR. SCHECK:* Just his answers to my hypothetical based on his--

*MR. HARMON:* You know, remember, mine are better late than never
yesterday, your Honor. That hypothetical was based on a lot of things
that have no resemblance to reality, including 52. I mean, that is the
state of the record with respect to cellmark. So--and that points out
why these argumentative distortions of what's been presented here--they
may be great for Mr. Cochran's closing argument, but even at that point,
I think you'd look at them with a dim view, and I hope you would anyway.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, this is--this is just a straightforward clear
simple graphic of what the testimony was yesterday based on--

*THE COURT:* Aren't computers wonderful?

*MR. SCHECK:* They are.

*THE COURT:* All right. I'll overrule the previous objections. However,
I anticipate five or six rather pointed questions from Mr. Harmon
regarding the underlying assumptions.

*MR. SCHECK:* I do too.

*THE COURT:* All right. Okay. Let's proceed. Let's have the jury, please.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, could I just comment? If you have those
questions about the legitimacy of the assumptions, then why don't you
defer on letting the jury see this rather than seeing it, and then let
me straighten it out next Wednesday or Thursday. That I thought we were
keeping them from being misled.

*THE COURT:* Well, counsel, you know, in looking at all of this, the
issue is whether or not it would be misleading. Under the hypothetical
that Mr. Scheck--and with his assumptions, it was an appropriate
hypothetical question. However, I suspect that you will be able to come
back and counter some of those assumptions. And I have already
instructed the jury regarding the assumptions made on hypothetical
questions. Let's proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you instruct them again, your Honor, before we
actually show them a manifestation of a--

*THE COURT:* I'm not going to pinpoint instructions for either party at
any particular time.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Why don't you be seated.
Mr. Sims, why don't you go ahead and take your seat. All right. Let the
record reflect that we've been rejoined now by all the members of our
jury panel. Mr. Sims is again on the witness stand. And, Mr. Scheck, you
may continue with your cross-examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, to move back to our discussion of PCR carry-over
contamination, now, referring you again to the chart that's--

*THE COURT:* 1133.

*MR. SCHECK:* --1133, now, these 4 billion 290 million fragments that
are produced by an amplification, is the term that is sometimes used to
describe a single one of those fragments an amplicon fragment?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I've seen that term in the literature.

*MR. SCHECK:* And sometimes it's just referred to as an amplicon?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And under the discussion we were having of this cy--32
cycles of one fragment, we were assuming it was the starting material--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me, Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Sorry?

*THE COURT:* Excuse me just a second. All right. Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* We were assuming the starting material here was a 1.3, 1.3.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so that would mean that the 4 billion 290 million
amplicon fragments were these 1.3, 1.3 fragments from the DQ-Alpha system.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And just as we broke, you indicated to us that one of
those fragments is invisible.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if a number of these invisible fragments were to get
from one of these tubes into another tube, that could cause what's known
as PCR carry-over contamination?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Vague as to a number.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, it would depend on the number.

*MR. SCHECK:* How many of these amplicon fragments, these 1.3 fragments
would it take to--when it transferred to another tube where it shouldn't
be to create one of those little 1.3 dots on a DQ-Alpha strip?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it's not just to create the dot. It's actually to get
a typeable result. Is that what you mean? To get a typeable result, we'd
need about a hundred of them, something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* 100?

*MR. SIMS:* 100, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* 1--only 100 out of those 4 billion 290 million fragments
being transferred to another tube would cause a 1.3 contaminant on a strip?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And have you ever heard the term "exquisite sensitivity"
applied to the PCR technique?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. SCHECK:* And by "exquisite sensitivity," it is meant that the
ability of the PCR process to amplify up very small amounts of starting
material means that it is a very sensitive form of testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. SCHECK:* And by sensitivity, we're talking about the ability to
detect small amounts of, in this case, DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* If one takes one of those microfuge tubes with the top and
pops it up and gets a small aerosol, gets on a glove, gets on the rim of
another tube and then gets into a second tube and only 100 of those
fragments gets into that second tube, that can cause a PCR carry-over
contamination which would create one of those typeable 1.3 dots lighting
up on the strip?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, no. That by itself wouldn't cause that.
That's--you're--the way you phrased that, that's not what you're talking
about.

*MR. SCHECK:* It gets into the tube and then you amplify it up and then
you see the dot on the strip?

*MR. SIMS:* In other words, if--if some of that amplified product, that
number of copies we talked about got back into another tube and then
that got amplified, then that's correct, yes. But you have to amplify
what you got in the tube.

*MR. SCHECK:* Amplified second?

*MR. SIMS:* That's right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, because these amplified products, it only takes 100
of them I think you said--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --to create a contaminant typing result.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* PCR laboratories, whether doing forensic typing or typing
for clinical medicine, have to be very, very concerned about carry-over
contamination.

*MR. SIMS:* You have to be very concerned about that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have to take very strict precautions to make sure that
amplified product, these fragments are not accidentally spread around?

*MR. SIMS:* You have to take strict precautions, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you need to take strict precautions because only 100
of these invisible fragments can cause that contaminant?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In other words, 100 of those fragments all landing in
the same place, the same tube as you mentioned, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, in your--amplified fragments, these
invisible amplified fragments can get on people's shoes?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I suppose they could if there was some on the floor, for
example, and you stepped in it.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you could carry them to another section of the
laboratory if one isn't careful?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I suppose that could happen.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it can get on clothing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if you carry that to another part of the laboratory,
then touch your clothing and put your hand down on a surface, that can
spread the amplicons?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That could spread them out, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then that spread of the amplicons can somehow get on
an analyst's hands or clothing and then start getting into reagents?

*MR. SIMS:* It's somewhat of a circuitous route, but I suppose
theoretically, all that could happen.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, isn't that in your understanding of the literature
in this area more than a theoretical problem?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, most--most of the concern has come about, for example,
in the way instrumentations such as pipettes are used or that sort of
thing, but that is part of the issue, is you want to isolate the PCR
product. There's no doubt about that.

*MR. SCHECK:* No doubt about it?

*MR. SIMS:* No doubt about that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's why in your laboratory's--withdrawn. Now, once
one gets PCR carry-over contamination in a laboratory, it is hard to
pinpoint exactly where it came from?

*MR. SIMS:* In other words, if one saw a--a large amount of it, in other
words, a large number of samples that were contaminated, is that what
you're saying? Yes, it could be difficult to isolate that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in the literature on PCR typing, there has been much
written about measures that could be taken in laboratories to prevent
carry-over or amplicon contamination as it's called?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* One precaution that has been suggested is the use of an
enzyme known as U-N-G?

*MR. SIMS:* Ung, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Actually, I think it stands for--this may be more
information than we need--Uracil N-Glycolase.

*THE COURT:* You want to spell that?

*MR. SCHECK:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* Or is it glycol's maybe?

*MR. SCHECK:* Uracil, U-R-A-C-I-L, new word, capital N dash,
G-L-Y-C-O-L-A-S-E. Yes?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that's right, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Typically--otherwise know as U-N-G?

*MR. SIMS:* Ung.

*MR. SCHECK:* And this is an enzyme that can be put into the PCR process
that can prevent--can be used to prevent amplification of carry-over
amplicons from the previous amplification run?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's one approach that was proposed sometime back.
I--nobody's adopted it in forensic use because we haven't found the need
for it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, nobody in the forensic laboratories has adopted it?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* But in PCR typing, for purposes of clinical diagnosis,
this is a widely-used technique, isn't it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's irrelevant, calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if u-n-g is used in clinical laboratories as a
precaution against PCR carry-over contamination?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you familiar with the section concerning PCR
carry-over contamination in the NRC report?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's irrelevant.

*MR. SCHECK:* Call your attention to page 67.

*MR. HARMON:* Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Are you familiar with that?

*MR. SIMS:* I've read it.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Do you rely upon the recommended--on that
section of the--

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, objection.

*MR. SCHECK:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you rely on the section of the NRC report that discusses--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection.

*MR. SCHECK:* --PCR carry-over contamination in formulating your
opinions about PCR typing?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I object, hearsay, to the form of the question.

*THE COURT:* Well, counsel, if you are talking at the same time, I can't
hear the question, I can't hear the objection at the same time. Restate
the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you rely on the section of the national academy of
sciences report concerning PCR carry-over contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is this--is Dr. George Sensabaugh one of the authors of
this NRC report?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe he was one of the authors of the report.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that the same Dr. George Sensabaugh that was the author
of those articles or a number of the articles that Mr. Harmon referred
you to on direct examination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--so you don't use u-n-g as a precaution against PCR
carry-over contamination in your laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. We found no need for it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, ultraviolet light can be used to--as a precaution
against PCR carry-over contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Literally, if you expose the DNA to ultraviolet light, it
does something that they call cross-link it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. You get cross-linking, dimming, dimmers, that sort of
thing.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in simple terms, what that means is, if you expose the
amplicons to ultraviolet light, you will sort of deactivate them to the
point where they can't be amplified up as carry-over contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* That's the basic idea, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so ultraviolet light can be used as a way of--sort of
as a precaution against PCR carry-over contamination getting on surfaces?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I think you indicated that when you take notes in your
forensic typing, you do it as the work is performed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So you would be there with your paper, your note--your
notes, the paper on which you make your notes as you are performing some
of these functions?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And as a precaution, do you take the pages of your notes
and put it in some machine to expose them to ultraviolet light?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, what I do is, I take the pages that have been in the
PCR room, that's our product room, I expose those in a device called a
straddle linker, which it zaps them basically with this ultraviolet
light, and then I do that both sides of the paper before I remove it
from that room.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the reason that you--so you literally take the pieces
of paper that you bring into that PCR product room, and then you put it
in--what did you call it? A contraption?

*MR. SIMS:* The device is called a straddle linker.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. You put it in there, you expose both sides of the
paper to the ultraviolet light, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So that's to make sure that the paper that you're carrying
out of that PCR product room doesn't contain any of these amplicons?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's the--

*MR. SIMS:* That's to--

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, yes. That's to, again, expose it to the UV light. It's
a protective device.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's how careful one has to be?

*MR. SIMS:* That's--we are probably overboard on that matter, but I--we
think it's a good idea because that paper may have been, for example, on
a lab bench in the PCR room.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you say "overboard," you're talking in terms of
comparing forensic DNA laboratories, right? You're comparing yourself to
other forensic DNA laboratories?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's all I know about.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. You don't know very much about what clinical
laboratories do in terms of trying to prevent PCR carry-over contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know a great deal about that, that's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And would it be fair to say that the PCR typing process
has been used in clinical laboratories far longer than it has been in
forensic laboratories?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, no foundation, it's irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Do you know the answer to that question?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is it fair to say that most of the forensic laboratories
that you've been referring to for your knowledge are laboratories that
are connected with law enforcement?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So basically what's happening--I think you even described
it on direct--is that law enforcement, police crime laboratories have
been taking a PCR technology that was first introduced in clinical
medicine, the first application, and then research and transferring it
into the crime laboratory?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, no foundation, speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--I don't think--you said first. Now, I know Dr.
Blake, who is a forensic analyst, was using this stuff in 1985 or -6. I
mean, he was in the same building as the Cedus Company that developed
it. So I don't know that you can actually say that clinical medicine
people were using it before Dr. Blake was.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well--

*MR. SIMS:* I'm--I'm struggling with that one.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. Well, you know Dr. Kary Mullis?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know him personally.

*MR. SCHECK:* You know who he is?

*MR. SIMS:* I know who he is.

*MR. SCHECK:* He invented PCR technique.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe his name is on the patent along with some
other people.

*MR. SCHECK:* He won the Nobel Prize?

*MR. SIMS:* He won the Nobel Prize.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in your laboratory, you--at the end of the PCR typing
process, you go into something that you call a what room?

*MR. SIMS:* Product room.

*MR. SCHECK:* Product room. And that's where these tubes are amplified up?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's where the amplification and typing takes place.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's where you do your PCR product gel?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it's in your protocol that you never, never take PCR
product out of that room?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, we never process it away from that room. That's
correct. We would not do that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's because of this danger of carry-over contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Every tool in that PCR product room is a dedicated tool?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. SCHECK:* You don't take a pen that you would use in that room out
of the room, do you?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You don't take the lab coat out of that room?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You don't take any gloves out of that room?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You don't take any tubes out of that room?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you would never in your laboratory take the PCR tubes
out of that room, put it in a car, drive it for a mile, bring it into
another laboratory and then in another room in a laboratory, perform a
PCR product gel, would you?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. No foundation, calls for speculation, it's
irrelevant, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you ever take tubes out of your PCR product room and
perform what's known as a PCR product gel in another room in your
laboratory?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague in terms of what another room is.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* No. It would always be contained in the PCR product room
because of the way our lab is set up.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's because it's a one-way work flow?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's what's recommended by--in forensic laboratories
and any other laboratory that you know of that does PCR typing; that you
should have a one-way work flow and the PCR product should not leave
that last room?

*MR. SIMS:* That--that's the basic idea, yes. In other words, you work
on a sample, you extract it, then you move into the PCR room for the
final step.

*MR. SCHECK:* And could you just tell the jury what a PCR product gel is?

*MR. SIMS:* A PCR product gel is another one of these mini gels I think
Dr. Cotton may have referred to. It's sort of like a yield gel, but it
just tells you whether or not you got PCR product out of your
amplification. In other words, it evaluates whether or not the--this
amplification process was a success, because if it was a success, you'll
see a band for the DNA size fragment we mentioned, about 240 base pairs,
on your gel.

*MR. SCHECK:* And to perform a PCR product gel, bottom line, you would
be taking some tubes that contained these amplicon fragments. You would
have to be using that, be using amplified product?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Mr. Sims, let's discuss the glove.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in preparation for that, I would ask you to turn to I
guess it's page 69 of your notes while I search for one of the glove boards.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Watch out there, guys.

*MR. SCHECK:* This is no. 272-A.

*THE COURT:* Excuse me, counsel. We're missing the other board that goes
with this.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, I don't need it.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* For my purposes now. Well, I wouldn't mind using it, but--

*THE COURT:* No. That was our agreement.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh. The two of them would always be done together. You're
absolutely right, your Honor. It's just a question of logistics. But
I--thank you.

*THE COURT:* Deal's a deal.

*MR. SCHECK:* So I guess that means another easel.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* And while we're doing that, let me show Mr. Harmon some
photographs so that he has--

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* While they're searching for this board, I'll show the
witness these photos.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Tell you what. I'm sorry.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you examined those photographs?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's just--you began your examination of the glove
on October 15th?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I believe that's--yes, that's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* What I would like to do with you now is just go over what
you did and how long it took you to do it, to cut from the glove four
samples. I believe they are G1, G2, G3 and G4, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. But when you say "cut," I mean I'm also spending a lot
of time documenting, photographing and Dr. Blake is taking photographs
too. So--

*MR. SCHECK:* That's right.

*MR. SIMS:* --it's not right to just say how long did I take to cut.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no. I'm going to take you through it step by step.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Starting at page 69 of your notes.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* On October 15th at about 3:15, you began an examination of
this glove which you received on September 7th?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you photographed it and you made a diagram?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And this took you--and at that time, the glove
was turned inside out as reflected on the top left-hand photograph in
People's exhibit 272-A?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It was inside out.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's how it was when you received it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you then on--you--and when you were examining the
glove on October 15th, you also did some presumptive testing on
different areas of the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And could you tell us exactly what that is and how you did it?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. The presumptive blood testing is with a--it's a color
test, a reagent that when--in this case, I used orthotolidine. And what
one first does is take a swab and then touch lightly the area of
interest where you think there's blood, and then you take that swab now
and drop sequentially reagents upon it, the orthotolidine followed by
the hydrogen peroxide. And since blood has the--what's called a
peroxidase like activity associated with it, if there's blood there, it
will turn the reagent blue. You'll see a nice blue color.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Sims, would you spell orthotolidine for the
court reporter?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. O-R-T-H-O dash T-O-L-I-D-I-N-E.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the purpose of going over the--the--the glove with
this orthotolidine test and looking for all areas that you might think
was blood, was to identify all the areas that you could see on the
inside surface of the glove that you thought would be relevant for
purposes of DNA testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--that's right, except I would probably take out the
word "all." I'm not sure I--there's a lot of blood on that glove.
So--but those are the areas I focused on.

*MR. SCHECK:* And to do this, it took you about two and a half hours?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague as to what "this" is, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase.

*MR. SCHECK:* The examination, documentation and presumptive testing of
the surface of the glove took you--all those activities that you've
described on October 15th took you about and a half hours, or you tell
me how long it took.

*MR. SIMS:* That's approximately correct, yes. All those--all the
activities of that day took about that much time.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then on October 16th, the next day, you made some cuttings?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You cut G1 from I guess it's the pointer finger?

*MR. SIMS:* The index finger, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And G2?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's on the side of the middle finger.

*MR. SCHECK:* And G3?

*MR. SIMS:* That's from the ring finger.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And G4?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That was now down into the--towards the middle of the hand.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in other words, you were taking cuttings from the index
finger; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the inside of the middle finger?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then from something that would be equivalent on if you
would turn the glove, you know, out again, right, the inside of--what do
you call this finger--the--ring finger?

*MR. SIMS:* Ring finger.

*MR. SCHECK:* --ring finger?

*MR. SIMS:* Ring finger.

*MR. SCHECK:* Ring finger, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Looking for blood in those areas?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Then you also looked at an area that was even
middle of the palm, right?

*MR. SIMS:* I think we're now talking--

*MR. SCHECK:* G4.

*MR. SIMS:* G4 is actually I think the back of the hand because it's
inside out. If you look--

*MR. SCHECK:* Inside out on the back of the hand?

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. Mr. Scheck, you keep talking over Mr. Sims.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* May I step down, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* You may.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah, please.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you grab a pointer.

*MR. SIMS:* G4 is on the back of the hand. It's hard to think because
it's inside out. You have to think about it. This notch here is what we
call the palm or surface. In other words, that's the surface, the palm
of the--and then this--G4 then is on the back of the hand.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Now, to do these four--to do these four cuttings, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Between each cutting in your notes, you indicated that you
went through the procedure before where you cleaned your instruments
with water and alcohol and flamed them.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And under each of the cuttings, you put a new one of those
chem-wipes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. When you handled each one of those cuttings?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you changed gloves between each one of the cuttings or
cleaned or put on--washed your gloves?

*MR. SIMS:* Now, that--I don't recall in this particular examination
that I did that each time. I'm--I'm--I'm not sure I did that each time
because this was all one item.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. You might have?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I might have, but--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for speculation, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, how long did it take you to do those four cuttings?
About five hours and 40 minutes?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I think--I think there's a follow-up. This was--this was
a Sunday afternoon and I think there was still follow-up time. There
were additional samples taken and additional documentation that Sunday.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I'm just curious if you could, to the best of your
recollection, using your notes, how long do you think it took you to do
the cuttings for those four samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Oh, those four samples?

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. And the documentation and your usual procedures.

*MR. SIMS:* Probably an hour, something like that at least. Maybe an
hour and 15 minutes. Something like that. Maybe am hour and a half. I'm
not sure.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. And did there come a point where you proceeded on
October 17th with the organic extraction or your extraction process on
those samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Let me check my notes on that. Which page were you referring to?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, page 72.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Page 72, this would now be October 16th. This is when I
began the extraction of those samples.

*MR. SCHECK:* About how long did that take you?

*MR. SIMS:* The first--well, the first portion that--that night was
fairly quick because I just had at that point had all my tubes set up
and I just had to add a couple reagents to those tubes, and then that
went overnight. The extraction process takes overnight. You let this to
get this DNA out, you have to--and with our procedure, you have to go
overnight. So then we begin now with the 17th because the 16th--

*MR. SCHECK:* How long? How long?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that would probably take about half an hour, something
like that, on the 16th.

*MR. SCHECK:* The organic extraction?

*MR. SIMS:* The start of the organic extraction on the 16th would take
about half an hour.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And how long would it take you to finish the
organic extraction on the next day, page 77?

*MR. SIMS:* This goes from 72 I guess over to page 75. I would say I
spent probably, oh, half a day at least. I work--I work very slowly, but
something like a half day, maybe four or five hours, something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then did there come a point when you did an
amplification of these G1, G2, G3 and G4?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* How long did that take?

*MR. SIMS:* This would now be after the yield gel?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. Page--you do a yield gel. How long did that take?

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. Well, the yield gel runs for about an hour.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SIMS:* This was a--this was a pretty long day. Let's see.
I--I--yeah. I have Dr. Blake coming over around 2100 hours. So that
would be what, around 9:00 o'clock I guess. I'm running the yield gel
during that time. I think it's not been till about the 18th--I have
Blake departed 12:00 A.M. that would be midnight. And I think that the
actual set-up then starts on the 18th. That would probably take about an
hour and a half, something like that. There was some calculations based
on the yield gel made and then there was some laying out of the--what we
were going to amplify. So that would take about an hour and a half,
something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And finally, when you do your amplification run and you
get your typing results, about how long did that part of the process
take for these four samples?

*MR. SIMS:* The--the typing, usually about half a day. I'd say about
four hours it takes to do the typing. And then if the product gel is
run, that's another hour or so.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, I heard you say that you work slowly you said?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, you work carefully?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, yes, I'm very careful. I think I'm very careful.

*MR. SCHECK:* Nothing wrong with that, is there?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, from a production standpoint, it's not--I don't
think--I don't think it's all that good. But in terms of getting the
right result, I think it's important to take one's time to do a good job.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Now, looking at all your results on 272-A, which is
the picture of the glove, and 272-B, would it be fair to say that the
predominant source of DNA on this glove, whether it be through RFLP
typing or PCR base typing, is consistent with Ronald Goldman?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I can only address those issues--those places where I
sampled. You have to remember there's a lot of blood on this glove.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* And from the areas that I sampled, I mean, there's a great
deal of mixing going on, but--but overall, from the areas that I
sampled, I would say yes, Mr. Goldman's types were predominant in those
areas.

*MR. SCHECK:* Whether you're looking at the band intensities in RFLP or
the dot intensities in PCR or the band intensities in D1S80, it would be
your conclusion that his DNA was the predominant source on this glove in
most of the areas?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That misstates the testimony, calls for
speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And each of the areas would take it--would you
agree that Mr. Goldman's--that DNA consistent with Mr. Goldman's type,
different typing procedures, was the predominant source?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you found no trace of DNA consistent with Mr. Simpson
in G1, the index finger?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You found no trace of DNA consistent with Mr. Simpson in
G2, the middle finger?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You found no trace of Mr. Goldman's--Mr. Simpson's DNA
consistent with Mr. Simpson in the ring finger?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You found no trace of DNA consistent with Mr. Simpson in
G4, the back of the hand?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* At G14, the bottom of the glove, you found no trace of DNA
consistent with Mr. Simpson?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. The three areas where you found traces of DNA
on the D1S80 system that were consistent with Mr. Simpson were G10, G11
and G13?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, turning first to G10, you extracted a total of 44
nanograms of DNA?

*/MR. SIMS:/*/I'll check that (Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* That's--actually there was a little more than that because
this was now available after the quantitation. So it was a little over
44 nanograms, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And looking at band intensities on the D1S80 system, would
you say that the proportion--let me ask you, how would you estimate the
proportion of DNA within that area that contributed to the 25 allele?
Would you say it would be something on the order of 20 percent?

*MR. SIMS:* Maybe something along those lines. I would defer that though
to Renee Montgomery, who is a D1S80 specialist.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, from your examination of that, would you--your
opinion say about 20 percent?

*MR. SIMS:* Something in that ballpark, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So if we use that estimate, then that would mean it's
about eight nanograms of DNA would be consistent with the contribution
of the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Something like that. It may be less than that also, but
it's down there.

*MR. SCHECK:* Maybe less than eight?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now looking at G11, extracted there 18.5 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me one moment while I look at my notes.

*THE COURT:* Take your time.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* G11--I'm sorry. And you said how much?

*MR. SCHECK:* 18.5.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That was again what was available after the
quantitation. So there was more along the lines of about 20, something
like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. And what would be your estimate of the proportion of
DNA that would be attributable to the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* On that--on that particular one, I don't remember because I
haven't looked at that gel in a long time. So I don't have an
independent recollection other than that it was a weaker contribution
than the 24 allele. I do independently remember that first one we
mentioned, but I don't recall the intensity on g--on G-11, these last
two because I don't recall that particular gel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. But your assessment here is that this would be
consistent with the three-way mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* On G11?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So that would mean that if you assumed that the
mixture on the D1S80 system was a--was between an 18, 18, 25--and a--24,
25 and a 24, 24, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the 25 band in that D1S80 is comparatively faint,
isn't it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It's noticeably weaker.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So would you say that something on the order of
at--at most a third could be attributed to the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, as I mentioned, I don't recall this particular
gel. And so I think I'd be speculating to say what that contribution
would be.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And turning to G13, you got 40.5 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Again, that would be available after the quantitation.
So it would be a little higher than that to start with.

*MR. SCHECK:* And do you have a recollection of--and again, this was a
three-way mixture, could be a three-way mixture?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it could be.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that the predominant--withdrawn. And that the 25
allele was comparatively faint?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Again, it was weaker than the 24 noticeably.

*MR. SCHECK:* And what proportion do you believe of that mixture would
be attributable to the 25 allele?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think again, I'd have to give the same answer
because I think those two samples were run on the same gel that I don't
recall the intensity patterns.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. But again--all right. So you wouldn't want to
speculate that it would be at most a third?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I would--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now--

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I'd like to mark some photographs right now.
Next in order--

*THE COURT:* I believe 1161.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Actually what I would like to do is--I made an error.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, is this going to be a series of photographs?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Actually, what I'd like to do, your Honor, with your
permission--I've shown these to the witness--is--they are photographs
that are contained inside plastic and there are markings that are
illustrative of them, and I would like to show them to the witness. So
that the exhibit would be the photograph inside the plastic with the
marking.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Harmon. Have you looked at the markings?

*MR. HARMON:* Well, I do have a problem with the markings without a
foundation, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Let me see counsel without the reporter.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, counsel. Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Show you--what is this next in order is?

*THE COURT:* This is 1161.

/(Deft's 1161 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Photograph in plastic with markings on it that we'll
call 1161.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you recognize that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, this appears to be the same glove that I looked at and
I would--I'm pretty sure that's Dr. Blake's writing on that photograph
to label it.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Does that appear to you to be the cut-out area
that you and Dr. Blake identified as being the sample removed from the
back of the wrist by the Los Angeles Police Department before you
received the glove? And please check it against your diagram.

*MR. SIMS:* That--that looks very similar to it.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, I show you 11--

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I just wanted to finish by saying, the assumption was
made that that cut was caused--was not caused, but it was made by the
LAPD. I don't know that independently.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you received the glove--

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I object to that, move to strike that. That
calls for speculation, your Honor. There's no foundation for that right now.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. The jury is to disregard that last answer.

*MR. SCHECK:* You received the glove from the Los Angeles Police Department?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And when you received it, there was that cut-out?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And to the best of your knowledge, in looking over the
records of this case, no other agency performed any testing or made any
cut-outs of the glove before you received it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for speculation, hearsay, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let me show you what's--

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I'll remove LAPD photos?

*THE COURT:* Well, I think we can--when we put it on the elmo, we can
delete the commentary.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* Or you can just use the photograph itself as 1161 without
the comment on it.

/(Deft's 1162 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Show you what's 1162. Does this
photograph--these two photographs in the plastic reflect cut-outs, one,
two, three, four, five cut-outs that you observed on the glove prior to
your removing anything from it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, your Honor. Calls for speculation, there were
cut-outs.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Now, again, I do have my own photographs of this item too,
but against my drawings within my notes, that appears to be consistent. Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And ask be marked 1163.

/(Deft's 1163 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Does that appear to be a--a photograph of the cut-out
you made of G10?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. That would be the wrist at the "v" cut-out of
the area G10?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And I'll show you what I would ask to be marked
1164.

/(Deft's 1164-A for id = photograph)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* And this would be a plastic page with two photographs.
And would that--does that reflect swabs that you made at the area
designated G11 and G12?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. These were taken by Dr. Blake. I'm holding the forceps
and this is--he wanted to document exactly where we were getting the
samples from. So this is him taking a picture of me sampling them.

*MR. SCHECK:* And finally, on the other side of 1164, I'll call it 1164-B.

*THE COURT:* No. Just--yeah. 1164-B.

/(Deft's 1164-B for id = photograph)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* There's another two photographs, one of G13 and another
of G10, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. And also, G14 is on the filter paper.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And that again is you taking the cut-out; is that
right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I was just going to review it against my notes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Please.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Scheck, would you mark the front of that
1164-A so that Mrs. Robertson doesn't spend time looking for--

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* So the--let's look at 164-D.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you lower it down.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you mind if I--

*THE COURT:* Let's just lower it down.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Can you put that up?

*MR. SCHECK:* We seem to be getting some reflection, but can you--Mr.
Sims, if you--look at the lower photograph of 1164-B. Do you see
something, initials "CY"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And those--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. Mr. Scheck, perhaps if we took that out of the
plastic. Is that possible? Because the reflection appears to be off the
plastic surface.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I understand. The problem is, if we take it out of
the plastic, then you lose the markings that indicate where everything
is. And I won't be with this long, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Well, it's not particularly helpful if the glare is there
though.

*MR. SCHECK:* I understand.

*MR. SCHECK:* Can you--all right. Looking at this section, do you see
the initials "CY"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is--that was there before you received the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it must have been because it was there when I opened it.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And in the area just below where you took
G14--well, in that lower area of the glove, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Where there's some cut-outs that you saw before you cut
anything on the glove.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that true?

*MR. SIMS:* Yeah. There was--there was that--that prior cutting near
G14. Is that--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the swab that you took on G11, the swab you took on
G13 and the cutting you made in G10 are all in that lower area of the
glove where you see those initials, some on the front, the swabbings on
the outside surface of the glove, the cutting on the inside of the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They're all down in that general area.

*MR. SCHECK:* And do you know if those initials "CY" stand for Collin
Yamauchi, an analyst at the Los Angeles Police Department?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you have any knowledge of whether or not someone from
the Los Angeles Police Department prior to you receiving the glove did
manipulations, put on initials, did cut-outs and handled that glove on
the morning of June 14th?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay and speculation. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Do you know anything about that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it was my understanding there was some examination of
the glove.

*THE COURT:* Do you know when it was done?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I believe it was in June. I'm not sure.

*THE COURT:* Do you have any personal knowledge about any of this?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Thank you. Now, Mr. Sims, would the--would it
be fair to say that the traces of DNA consistent with the 25 allele in
G10, G11 and G13 are all certainly 8 nanograms or less?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, I would defer on that question because I
haven't evaluated all those mixtures.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in other words, to get a more precise proportion, other
than the one you said--you said--I think you testified that G10 would be
8 nanograms at most, maybe less?

*MR. SIMS:* Yeah. Down in that neighborhood.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And you're deferring us to Miss Montgomery with
respect to getting a calculation on the other two?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. And also, to give you a better idea on that G10 one as
well.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let us turn to the sock.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Every stain that you cut and sampled from that sock, you
could see with the naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* Under the proper lighting conditions, I could, yes. That's true.

*MR. SCHECK:* In other words, you could see it with your naked eye, the
reddish stain, without the stereomicroscope, every stain that you cut
with appropriate lighting?

*MR. SIMS:* With appropriate lighting, I think that is true.

*MR. SCHECK:* And a trained forensic scientist with appropriate
lighting--withdrawn. Trained forensic scientists will examine pieces of
evidence with appropriate lighting.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague. Appropriate for what?

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. I mean, it depends obviously on the type of
examination that's being performed. It's hard for me to comment on that.
It's sort of a general question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, you have told us about your--you sit on a board that
certifies criminalists; do you not?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that's beyond what my duties were, but that was part
of my duty was to work on the examination, for example.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. In your opinion as an expert in criminalistics,
are criminalists trained to perform careful visual examination as an
appropriate lighting of garments such as a sock that might contain
bloodstains?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Beyond the scope of direct.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, it would depend on the type of examination.
Sometimes criminalists will screen items very quickly, just take a quick
look to see if there's grossly anything noticeable. And then other
times, if you're going to do a thorough examination, then I think you're
right, that you would want to make sure you have the appropriate lighting.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you're trying to examine an item for purposes of
determining how much blood would be on it for purposes of DNA testing,
you would want to examine that item with some care?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you receive these socks, one of the stains I'm
not talking about the larger cut-out area at the ankle, just one of the
stains, the first one you saw at the top, you saw that right away with
the naked eye, the one near the arrow?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That did catch my eye.

*MR. SCHECK:* You didn't need a stereomicroscope to see that. You just
saw that stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the cut-out on the sock in the ankle area, the cut-out
is about three-quarters of an inch?

*MR. SIMS:* Approximately, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would be about the length of my little finger to the joint?

*MR. SIMS:* Something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in the area adjoining the cut-out, you could see with
your naked eye not under the stereomicroscope a section of reddish material?

*MR. SIMS:* My initial exam was under the stereomike and I said, "some
reddish still here." I don't think--I think that was pretty subtle
though around that particular stain.

*MR. SCHECK:* We're only--but we're--could you?

*MR. SIMS:* Are you talking about the cut-out area now?

*MR. SCHECK:* Talking about there's a cut-out area, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then that--that we just described as being about
three-quarters of an inch?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's material from the sock that's already in a tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That has Mr. And Mrs.--that has Mr. Simpson's initials on it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that material had reddish stains on it when you took
it out of the tube that were visible to the naked eye?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That calls for speculation. Misstates his
testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* When--did you ever take those cuttings out of the tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you looked at those cuttings, could you see
reddish material with your naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, my examination notes are, "stereomike exam,
reddish staining." that was the--I mean, I--I think if you looked real
hard at them, you could probably pick up that there was a little bit of
reddish associated with them. But my observation was that I took them
over to the microscope right away because I wanted to see if there
really was a lot of blood there.

*MR. SCHECK:* At no point did you ever look at those cut-outs to see
whether you could see a reddish stain?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. How?

*MR. SCHECK:* This material on the sock is of a synthetic nature?

*MR. SIMS:* That's what I indicated in my notes, but that was just a
gross observation. I didn't actually characterize the fibers.

*MR. SCHECK:* It's a smooth fabric?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the area where--the areas where there is blood on it,
the fabric crinkles, it's a little stiffer?

*MR. SIMS:* It tends to pucker a little bit, yes. I think that's what I
noted on some of these.

*MR. SCHECK:* So that's a smooth synthetic sock, and the area where you
observed blood, the stained areas, crinkled and puckered?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is it true that in the areas where you observed red stains
with your naked eye without the use of a stereomicroscope, you noticed
that the fabric of the sock had crinkled and puckered?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Stains, misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* The areas of the socks where you observed blood, the naked
eye, the fabric, your observation, those areas crinkled and puckered?

*MR. SIMS:* In some of those areas, yes, I noticed that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you told us on direct examination about cut-outs you
made from the sock that you put on white paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you've explained that on that white paper, you could
see what you called fibrils?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you also could see without the aid of a
stereomicroscope powdering, reddish powdering?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There was some very minute specks of powdering.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's putting it on a white piece of paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And when forensic scientists are examining an
item, is it not their practice ordinarily to put that item they're
examining, searching for blood on a white or a light colored piece of paper?

*MR. SIMS:* That's typical. It's not always done, but it's typical.
Sometimes we would use brown paper, for example.

*MR. SCHECK:* And with care, you would manipulate the item and turn it
over on sides?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And it is standard practice for forensic
scientists to examine any debris or powdering that you might find on
such a paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now, again, you're talking about the debris. The
debris comes about from the cutting process.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the debris that you saw, you explained to us some of
it were fibrils that you believe came from the cutting process.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. I'm talking about a situation before you do
cutting, when you're examining an item.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you've indicated that forensic scientists will put
this on white pieces of paper.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you will examine it.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you will search it for bloodstains.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you will be turning it over.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you'll do that with some care.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it is standard practice after you do that to look on
the piece of paper to see if you see any kind of powdering or residue
from the item you've examined?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't know that that's standard practice to look at
that residue. One may look at it, for example, trace evidence.

*MR. SCHECK:* For trace evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be standard practice, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And even from the sections that you cut in your laboratory
in terms of the reddish powder, do you have an expectation that if you
did a presumptive test just on the powder of the white piece of paper,
you would have been able to get a positive presumptive?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, you are not part of any conspiracy to tamper
with evidence in this case, are you?

*MR. SIMS:* No. No, I'm not.

*MR. SCHECK:* To your knowledge, Dr. Cotton from cellmark is not part of
any conspiracy to tamper with evidence in this case?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Irrelevant, calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* No, I don't believe she is.

*MR. SCHECK:* But, Mr. Sims, as you sit here today, you don't know how
and you don't know when that blood got on the sock, do you?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That's argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know from your own personal knowledge how and when
that blood got on the sock?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that section of the sock you made--withdrawn. The
middle cut-out of the sock, you had--you took four swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* There were four. I took three.

*MR. SCHECK:* You took three?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And out of those three, when you quantitated the DNA, you
got 1,350 nanograms of DNA from the three swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Something like that. It was--it was a strong deposit of
blood and a lot of DNA.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you would expect that there would be more--there would
be additional DNA on the other swatch that you haven't tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you would expect there would be DNA on the section
that Greg Matheson tested?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And there is yet additional DNA on a session near the
cut-out of the sock that you did not even cut?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I could see that there was still some reddish staining
around the edges of the cut-out.

*MR. SCHECK:* And would it be fair to estimate in your opinion that if
you start from the area of the sock on the ankle, that from where you
can see blood, right, to the end of the cut-out, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Cut-out area, that if you had to make an estimate of the
amount of DNA in that spot, it would be in the area of 2- to 3,000
nanograms?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I think it's an appropriate time to stop.

*THE COURT:* All right. All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to
take our recess for the morning session. Please remember all of my
admonitions; do not discuss the case amongst yourselves, don't form any
opinions about the case, don't allow anybody to communicate with you,
don't allow--don't conduct any deliberations until the matter has been
submitted to you. As far as the jury is concerned, we'll stand in recess
until 9:00 A.M. Monday morning. Mr. Sims, Monday, 8:45. All right. You
may step down. Have a nice weekend.

*MR. SIMS:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, have a
pleasant weekend. Just for your information, we will be working on this
case and other cases this afternoon. So we're just taking a lunch break.
All right? You all have a nice weekend. All right. We'll stand in
recess, 1:30.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* We're over at the sidebar. This afternoon, we have
scheduled amongst other things a conclusion of the hearing on the
autopsy photographs. Mr. Cochran, you had something you wanted to say?

*MR. COCHRAN:* Yes, your Honor. As I understand it, Mr. Shapiro and Mr.
Uelmen and I guess representatives from the D.A.'s office will, among
other things, be going over photographs of the autopsy procedures in
this case. And I have discussed it with Mr. Simpson, and it's his desire
to not be present, he waive his appearance. And he has asked that those
photographs, if they're going to be displayed, that the Court would cut
the feed, which I'm sure you will be doing anyway. But he would like to
go back to the jail at this point.

*THE COURT:* All right. Any comment?

*MS. CLARK:* No.

*THE COURT:* All right. The Court has no objection if he wants to waive
his appearance, and I will accept Mr. Cochran's representation and Mr.
Shapiro's representation that your client waives.

/(At 12:00 P.M., the noon recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same
day.)/

//*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; FRIDAY, MAY 19, 1995 2:30 P.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES*: (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Back on the record in the Simpson matter. The Defendant
is not present, his presence previously having been waived by counsel.
All right. Counsel, your appearances for the record, please.

*MR. KELBERG:* Brian Kelberg for the Prosecution with Kevin Lynch.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Robert Shapiro and Gerald Uelmen for Mr. Simpson.

*THE COURT:* All right. Good afternoon, counsel. I have a number of
matters that have been submitted to me by the parties; and most recently
since our last discussions, a letter dated May 12th, 1995 filed by Dean
Uelmen on behalf of the Defendant. And I have a responsive letter dated
May 16th filed by the Prosecution in response by Mr. Kelberg, and I also
have five different sets of photographs that have been submitted to the
Court. And in addition, since our last discussion, the complete autopsy
reports. The most original letter to the Court dated April the 14th,
1995 included autopsy reports of both Mr. Goldman and Miss Brown
Simpson, neither of which, however, were the complete autopsy with all
diagrams and diagramming and addenda.

*MR. KELBERG:* I'm sorry, your Honor. Did the Court say they were with
or without?

*THE COURT:* Without.

*MR. KELBERG:* My copies should show that they were with.

*THE COURT:* All right. My copy shows without. And, however, I was going
to make a point for the record, since then, the Court has come in
possession of the complete autopsy, as far as I know, as to each of the
individual victims in this matter, and I have referred to those in
preparation for any final argument that counsel wish to present. And let
me thank counsel for their putting these arguments in writing as to each
of the individual photographs because that helps narrow these down
considerably. All right. Mr. Kelberg, since you are the counsel for the
offering party, do you have any final comment?

*MR. KELBERG:* No, your Honor, except to summarize I think the basic
points. Number one, the Prosecution must prove all elements of the
offenses charged. And despite what was said by counsel at our informal
discussion, it is not relieved by counsel saying, "We're not disputing
that there may be premeditation and deliberation," or, "We are not
disputing that there may be malice with respect to both of these
murders." The point is, as the U.S. Supreme Court acknowledges and as
the Ewell case Mr. Kennedy acknowledged by citing with approval the case
from the United States Supreme Court, we must prove these things. And it
is not going to relieve our obligation by counsel making a tactical
choice which they think may be to their advantage in securing a verdict
that they hope to reach--for the jury to reach at the conclusion of the
case.

The second point I wish to make deals with the significance of the
photographs to proving the issue of identity for the reasons that I've
expressed with Mr. Lynch in our response letter as well as in the
original materials and how these photographs do demonstrate factors that
will go to identifying the perpetrator as Mr. Simpson. Mr. Cochran went
into cross-examination of Detective Lange to try and establish that
these might be something called Colombian necktie or necklace murders by
drug dealers going after a welshing client perhaps rather than, as
Detective Lange said, the process of rage being borne out by a
perpetrator against a target. If this is in fact a rage killing--and
these photographs do show I submit to the Court that, at least a jury
can find that these were rage-motivated killings and murders--that the
jury will then want to think who has that motivation, who could generate
that rage towards one or the other or both of these individuals. And the
photographs do assist the jury, if they believe from the photographs
that these are rage-motivated murders, that the perpetrator is in fact
Mr. Simpson based on the domestic violence evidence and other evidence
that's been heard by this jury concerning not only the past relationship
of the parties, but all the events of June 12th of 1994. I also--

*THE COURT:* Should I infer from your argument regarding a rage killing
that I should consider voluntary manslaughter?

*MR. KELBERG:* No, your Honor. I don't believe that the Court is
required to do that. I do not believe that the evidence, at least that I
have heard--and I must confess that as interested as the public may be
in this case, I actually have other responsibilities besides this matter
and I have not had an opportunity to hear all of the evidence that has
been presented. But I certainly, from the evidence I have heard and from
the evidence from which I am most familiar, see no basis for this Court
to say /sua sponte/ that you see evidence that a reasonable man in Mr.
Simpson's position under the circumstances would have his passions
aroused to such a degree that this kind of activity that results in the
murders of these two human beings shows an absence of malice. It is not,
as the Court is well aware, a question of whether Mr. Simpson was a
sensitive individual whose passions could be aroused, whose rage could
be aroused by matters that would not cause a reasonable person's rage to
be or emotions to be raised to that degree. And unless the evidence
shows that it would be--that there is substantial evidence from which
the jury could find that a reasonable person's emotions would be raised
to that level, then not only is there no /sua sponte/ obligation on the
Court to give a lesser included of voluntary manslaughter, in my
judgment, it would be improper for this Court to give that option to
this jury.

Again, I do not speak for my colleagues who will be down I assume
discussing the jury instructions and who are clearly more familiar
perhaps with all aspects of the case than I am. But I give you my
overview of my understanding of the evidence and also the evidence from
the forensic pathology aspects. And I certainly see nothing that would
suggest, from anything I have heard, that the evidence shows a reason
for a reasonable person's emotions to be raised to such a degree that
the absence of malice is established for voluntary manslaughter. The
other points that I think are appropriate to be mentioned are that--the
point somewhat related to the question you've raised, your Honor, of,
you must give, in my judgment, second degree murder even if the Defense
took a tactical view of saying, your Honor, it's a first or it's nothing
with respect to both of these murders because there is in my judgment
from the evidence I am aware substantial evidence from which a juror who
is a reasonable juror could find the absence of proof beyond a
reasonable doubt of premeditation and deliberate and the presence of
malice, which would make, as to any particular one of these homicides,
second degree murder rather than first degree murder.

I'm not saying that, as the Court is well aware from what I said at our
last informal conversations, that the evidence is insufficient to prove
beyond a reasonable doubt that each of these murders is a first degree
murder. In fact, I submit there is certainly plenty of evidence from
which a reasonable juror could so find. But I recognize what is the
Court's obligation under the law to say whether or not there is any
substantial evidence from which a reasonable fact-finder, that's the
jury, could find a difference of view from what I view the evidence to
be. If there is such evidence, it's a question for this jury to decide.
And on that basis, it is the obligation of the Court under Wickersham to
give both first and second degree murder and let the jury decide which
is the appropriate degree. And these photographs go to premeditation and
deliberation without question. For example, as the Court is well aware
from our paper, the Prosecution contends that the last major wound
inflicted on Nicole Brown Simpson was a major stab incise wound that
runs from the left side of the neck over to the tip of the right earlobe
and that that was inflicted at a time when she was incapable of offering
any resistance.

And the evidence will show, as I offer an offer of proof, that that
circumstance of how it was inflicted is most consistent with her being
incapacitated on the ground in some fashion, having the perpetrator, who
we contend is the Defendant, O.J. Simpson, coming up from behind her,
placing a foot on the part of her back that has this non-specific blunt
force trauma under the dress area and then pulling with one hand her
hair and pulling her head back, which would obviously then expose the
full area of the neck; and then with his right hand, taking a knife and
drawing it across from the left to the right in the upward angle that is
the appropriate angle created from such a positioning to cause what is
this major wound that would sever both the carotids of the left and
right and the jugular veins of both the left and right sides.

And that, your Honor, I think is evidence that the jury could use to
find that this is premeditated and deliberate because after all, if this
started as a matter of emotion and rage and it got out of hand, Nicole
Brown Simpson would clearly be able to identify the perpetrator, and
even if Mr. Goldman didn't know Mr. Simpson on any kind of social basis,
Mr. Simpson is the kind of person who is hard not to be able to identify
if in fact you saw the face of Mr. Simpson. He is a nationally,
internationally known face. So there is certainly a motive provided to
administer a /coup de grace/ that would with certainty, with certainty
lead to the death of a person who could quite clearly identify Mr.
Simpson as the murderer in this instance.

So that's just one section of the wounds that are available. There are
multiple fatal stab wounds to Mr. Goldman on the abdominal aorta, two to
the chest. He's got a fatal stab wound to the left side of his neck and
a fatal--a stab wound which has the appearance of being fatal, depending
on the depth of penetration, because the wound area to the left side of
the ear and also the wound that originates in the area of the ear share
a common pathway. And so it's very difficult to determine which may have
cut the jugular vein on the left side of the body. But in any event, a
fatal wound. And these are clearly, clearly fatal stab wounds that can
be interpreted by a jury as being inflicted when there was in fact
limited if any resistance by Mr. Goldman and which would be certain
to--I hope I said Mr. Goldman, not Mr. Golden.

*THE COURT:* No. You said--no. I was just--the reason the quizzical
look, because I was just pondering how circumstantially you would come
to that conclusion.

*MR. KELBERG:* You can find from the appearance of the stab wounds, your
Honor, as to whether they have a cutting component or they appear to
have a direct thrust without twisting and torquing of either the knife
or the body. And if the person is incapacitated, unable to resist,
unable to move and the knife is thrust in a basically direct fashion
into the body and removed, then you can have a stab wound which on the
surface will not have a cutting component and give some evidence of this
lack of twisting and turning. And that is evidence which I think the
jury, number one, will hear about and, number two, can use to interpret
whether in fact Mr. Goldman was in a position where he was offering any
resistance, and if not, whether a thrust to that kind of vital area of
the body reflects evidence of premeditation and deliberation. Clearly, I
think it's no question, it reflects evidence of express malice.

Whether it reflects the kind of careful weighing of the pros and cons of
one's action is another matter. And I'm not saying that necessarily a
jury would find beyond a reasonable doubt on the basis of any one of
those particular wounds that it does. But I believe it will be a matter
for the jury to decide. So the Defense--to basically not rehash
everything that we have said in our document, I think the Defense quite
understandably is trying to take a position to keep from this jury the
best evidence that exists of what we contend O.J. Simpson did to his
ex-wife and to Mr. Goldman and to keep from this jury seeing that best
evidence which will, when taken with all the evidence, establish not
only premeditation and deliberation and express malice, but will also
establish the identity of Mr. Simpson as the perpetrator.

We have exercised discretion, your Honor. The Court has all the
available photographs from which we could select photographs to offer.
We attempted very diligently to pour through these photographs and with
a fine tooth comb go over them and see, all right, does this photograph
show something that this photograph doesn't, does that photograph show
something that the other one doesn't and do we need both, is there a
cumulative effect to these. And we have with the greatest effort
possible, your Honor, attempted to dwindle these down to the minimum
number of photographs to establish for this jury the facts. It is no
secret, your Honor, that there is in the public mind the view that the
autopsies were not properly performed by Dr. Golden. And there is no
question, as we have already discussed on the record the last motion
that was heard involving Dr. Golden's prior mistakes, that the evidence
will show he made a number of mistakes, he made a lot of mistakes. And
the evidence I submit will show that not one of his mistakes is
significant. But that is something that we must prove. That is something
that will go to the question of the significance or lack of significance
to any of the findings.

That will go to the significance or lack of significance of throwing
away the stomach contents of Nicole Brown Simpson. All of these things
come into play when the competency of what Dr. Golden did is
legitimately brought into question. And the Defense has brought that
into question. And as I point out in our response letter, even if they
didn't under 785, the question of his competency is something which even
the party calling the witness may go into on direct examination. I
couldn't help but note somewhat ironically when I was quickly going over
the transcript the last time we were here on the record on April 3rd,
Dean Uelmen's remarks when we were talking about the evidence both of
the alleged gun incident and talking about the incidents of mistakes
made by Dr. Golden in 1990. Looking at page 2,100--I'm
sorry--21,000--you've been at it much longer than I thought--21,484
beginning at line 25, Dean Uelmen saying: "Now, with respect to all of
this evidence, what we are talking about is the weight and the
credibility that the jury is going to give to the testimony of Dr.
Golden with respect to some very key issues in this case, including the
time of death, including the nature of the wounds, whether the wounds
indicate that they were made by two different weapons as Dr. Golden
indicated in his preliminary hearing testimony."

I might point out, your Honor, as I told informally Dean Uelmen, I
believe that's a misstatement. I think the preliminary hearing
transcript in fact reflects that what Dr. Golden said was all of the
wounds are consistent with a single knife, but he cannot exclude the
possibility of a second knife because a single-edged knife could have
caused all of the wounds, some of the wounds could be caused by either a
single-edged knife or a double-edged knife, and you cannot tell the
difference. And on that basis, he cannot say to a reasonable medical
certainty that a second knife could not be involved. But the evidence
will show that a single, single-edged knife could have caused all of
these sharp force injuries, these stab wounds, these incise wounds and
so forth.

The second comment that Dean Uelmen made on page 21,487, line 23, again
talking about this evidence--it's the Court actually saying: "Dean
Uelmen, let's cut to the chase. What is interesting about this is an
expression of bias against perhaps these attorneys and a demonstration
of professional incompetence," which is I believe what Dean Uelmen was
suggesting the evidence would be relevant to establish. And on 21,492,
page--line 15, Dean Uelmen continued: "We have to note that one of the
key areas in which Dr. Golden is going to be testifying is his
examination of the wounds of the victims and rendering opinions about
whether those wounds are consistent with a particular knife which he was
given by Detective Vannatter, whether they are consistent with more than
one knife and whether they are different morphological wounds."

I think it's quite clear that between Mr. Cochran's opening statement
and Dean Uelmen's remarks at our previous hearing, that the issue of Dr.
Golden's competency is brought into play and he does have involvement in
matters that are of significance to this jury, the nature of these
wounds, if one knife can cause all of these wounds. And I must say that
unlike Dean Uelmen's letter, I believe as an offer of proof, the
evidence will show that forensic pathologists do look at photographs and
can tell from the appearance of the wounds on the surface of the body
the nature of the knife that can cause a particular stab wound. We'll be
hearing a lot about blunt ends and forked ends, and I think the Court
probably from its experience as a trial Judge in a criminal court has
heard these terms before and will hear them again and how you
differentiate between a double-edged knife stab wound and a single-edged
knife stab wound. And the photographs are the best evidence. They are
really the only evidence that will clearly be available, especially
where Dr. Golden's competency is called into question. So you take all
of these matters into play, your Honor--and again, I understand why the
Defense doesn't want the jury to see these photographs. But Justice
Gardener had it right, and I think that's how we ended our response
letter to the Court, when Justice Gardener said: "The average juror is
well able to stomach the unpleasantness of exposure to the facts of a
murder without being unduly influenced. The supposed influence on jurors
of allegedly gruesome or inflammatory pictures exist more in the
imagination of judges and lawyers than in reality.

"Second, a Defendant has no right to transform the facts of a gruesome
real-life murder into an anesthetized exercise where only the Defendant,
not the victim appears human. "Jurors are not and should not be
computers for whom a victim is just an element to be proved, a component
of a crime. A cardboard victim plus a flesh and blood Defendant are
likely to equal an unjust verdict." Now, I know the Court is aware that
we were to get together--and we did get together earlier today--to
possibly discuss and work out any stipulations. I believe that the only
stipulations we can work out are a conditional two stipulations that
require the Court to make a ruling on the third element, but they deal
with the two photographs of Nicole Brown Simpson clothed as she was seen
at the Coroner's Office. And the stipulations that I believe we can
enter into and the photograph be withdrawn, if the Court rules in a
particular way, are that, number one, there is no evidence that Nicole
Brown Simpson was sexually assaulted or that she was the victim of an
attempted sexual assault in the course of the events which led to her
murder.

Where we have the need for the Court to rule is whether or not there is
any relevancy to the question of whether or not a sexual assault kit
should have been taken on the theory that that sexual assault kit might
show evidence of previous sexual activity on the part of Nicole Brown
Simpson which the Defense might suggest is relevant in some fashion. Our
position would be that it would be completely irrelevant or certainly
subject to 352. And I'll leave it to Dean Uelmen and Mr. Shapiro to
suggest how they believe it could be relevant and so forth. If the Court
finds it is irrelevant, I believe that based upon the stipulations that
I mentioned, if in fact they are agreeable with counsel, we will
withdraw B1 and B2 as photographs. If the Court finds that, however, it
is relevant to go into the issue of a sexual assault kit, then the
People cannot enter into the stipulation because the photographs are
extremely important to establish why no sexual assault kit was taken.
And I think unfortunately that's going to be the limit of what we can
agree upon. As the Court is well aware, the Defense has objected to
every photograph and we have taken what I believe is a reasonable
conservative view by trying to dwindle these photographs down to the
minimum. I do not believe this Court will find from our descriptions and
our basis of relevancy that any one photograph can take the place of any
other photograph. There is a purpose to each photograph. And although
some of the photographs on first blush may have some common nature in
what they show, in fact every photograph does have a purpose that cannot
be served by any other photograph in the select group that we have
offered. On that basis, your Honor, I'll submit the matter.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let me--Mr. Kelberg, before you sit down, let me
ask you one other question. I'm also curious as to the manner in which
you intend to present these photographs.

*MR. KELBERG:* I'm glad you mentioned that, your Honor, because--in
fact, I was talking to Mr. Shapiro just before the Court started the
afternoon session and I have given that great thought. With due respect
to the people who sit in the audience through this trial, it is my
position twofold, for twofold reasons, that the photographs should not
be put on the overhead display. My position would be that these
photographs would be, as they are in just about every other murder case
that is tried in this building, put on boards and positioned for the
jury to see. Now, it's my understanding in talking to Mr. Shapiro that
Mr. Simpson would not object if the boards were positioned in such a
manner that Mr. Simpson could not see the photographs as they are being
displayed to the jury. And they would be displayed in my judgment, your
Honor--I'm not that familiar with the dynamics of the cameras, but at
least initially, my position would be to position them roughly in the
middle of the jury box area so that jurors on both wings will be able to
see as well as the jurors who are in front. And in so positioning, I
don't believe the people who are behind me at the moment or those who
will come and take their place will be able to see those photographs. In
my judgment, there is a right of privacy that continues past death that
both applies to the victim and to the victim's families who may or may
not be present. There's also an actual relevant reason in my judgment
why that is a better presentation than putting them overhead. Because we
will have these--

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's assume that I agree with you that overhead
projection is not an appropriate way to display these. The photographs
that you have given to me appear to be approximately what, 10 by 14?

*MR. KELBERG:* I don't believe so. I think they're 9 by 11 or 12 as I
understand from what the Coroner's office produces. I haven't measured
them to be candid with the Court, but that's my understanding.

*THE COURT:* All right. Are these the photographs that you intend on
offering?

*MR. KELBERG:* Yeah.

*THE COURT:* I mean in this size.

*MR. KELBERG:* With one exception. There is one what I would call a
one-to-one photograph, which is in essence a life-size photograph. And I
have it here. It is to the back area of Nicole Brown Simpson where the
non-specific blunt force trauma is. And that photograph I would offer
because quite simply, your Honor, it shows the area of the non-specific
blunt force trauma much more clearly than the photograph that the Court
has. The photograph itself is not significantly bigger as to the
photograph, but without taking the photograph out, what I'm holding up
is the size. It's got a big border around it in order to get the area up
to one-to-one size. And I can approach with the photograph if the Court
wants to see what it looks like.

*THE COURT:* Which photograph is this?

*MR. KELBERG:* B9.

*THE COURT:* B9.

*MR. KELBERG:* And counsel has been provided copies of all of these.

*THE COURT:* Is this the one that Dr. Veil evaluated?

*MR. KELBERG:* Yes. Yes. Correct.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. KELBERG:* So I can leave the package if the Court wants to take a
look or you'll take my word for it?

*THE COURT:* No. I just want to know which one you're talking about.

*MR. KELBERG:* And that is the only one. But otherwise, obviously, if
you put them on boards, your Honor, they have to be big enough that the
jurors can see and they can't be so small that the detail is not
apparent. So what we believe is that this is a reasonable accommodation.
This is roughly the size that is commonly used in courtrooms throughout
this building and throughout this county when homicide cases are being
tried. So that would be my preference, to do it that way and keep the
jury, which quite frankly are the only 17 people who matter as far as
seeing these photographs besides Court and counsel, aware of what they
are going to be hearing in the way of testimony and correlating it with
the photographs. And on that basis, I would like to do it in that
fashion and not have anything in the form of a photograph up on the
overhead.

*THE COURT:* Okay. All right. Thank you, Mr. Kelberg. Mr. Shapiro.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Thank you very much, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Good afternoon, sir.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Good afternoon, your Honor. I want to direct my comments
specifically to the issue at hand; and that is the autopsy photographs
that the People are offering to have displayed before the jury. Clearly,
these are pictures that are horrendous to anyone, even trained
professionals, especially the up-close and sterile photographs of the
throats of both of the victims in this case. They are further
exaggerated by the fact that some type of block was put by the Coroner
under the neck to take the wound and open it up so that you can clearly
see into the interior of the throat. If there was ever a photograph
where the prejudicial effect would outweigh any probative value, the
photographs of this neck in this condition certainly do. The danger that
counsel spoke about--

*THE COURT:* But, do you know--Mr. Shapiro, do you know what specific
photographs you're referring to?

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Yes. Yes.

*MR. UELMEN:* G37 for Mr. Goldman and B13 and B16 for Miss Brown.

*THE COURT:* All right. Just so the record is clear.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* And the Court must look at these. And even though you
don't see the brace there, I can tell you from our experts--and I don't
think there's any dispute--that the neck is propped up in a way to
attenuate and exaggerate the injury. As far as whether or not this jury
will see sterile or get a sterile view of this crime scene, I don't
think there's any chance of that happening. The testimony to date and
the crime scene photographs have been described as being a very, very
bloody scene, one of the bloodiest that the detectives have witnessed or
investigated. So that's not an issue. The issue here is what does the
jury get that they can't get from another source by these photographs
that are likely to cause revulsion and horror on the part of anyone who
looks at them .

And I would say the Coroner is here to offer testimony on two issues.
First, the cause of death--and quite frankly, there is no dispute
between the parties on the cause of death on this case. Both victims
died as a result of serious injuries to the throat. They will be more
specific as to whether it's the carotid artery on one, the jugular vein,
but both of these were victims were killed by knife wounds to the
throat, and that is not an issue. The second is time of death. And the
photographs in no way offer any evidence whatsoever that will help this
jury in the time of death. As to the type of weapon, since no weapon has
been recovered, the type of weapon is irrelevant, unless it can be shown
that there is some nexus between some weapon connected with Mr. Simpson.
And we have received no discovery on that whatsoever. As to whether
there was one or more perpetrators, then the issue comes down to whether
or not the injuries are only consistent with one weapon or could have
been caused by more than one weapon. And the testimony has already been
proffered in that and there will be no dispute. Counsel has informed me
that Dr. Lakshsmanan and Dr. Golden will both be testifying that they
could have been caused by more than one weapon.

So when we get to the real issues before the jury, there can only be one
reason to display these photographs. And that is to inflame the passions
of the jury so that they are more likely to convict than acquit based on
the nature of the autopsy photographs, not the crime scene photographs
which are already before the jury. In addition, counsel has informed me,
as we would expect, that they are going to do charts to demonstrate the
location of each and every injury. And again, the jury will then have a
clear view of these injuries. So in order of importance, we would
respectfully request the Court to consider the following: That any
autopsy photograph of a cleansed throat wound that is propped up is
totally improper and has no probative value whatsoever. That the
full-body photographs of both of the victims clothed or partially
clothed are only inflammatory and duplicative of photographs at the
crime scene, and to see them on a sterile table causes nothing but to
inflame the jury. Counsel's argument about the fact that a sexual
assault kit was not used on these victims, therefore, they want to show
the clothing really is not of any moment because we are willing to
stipulate that these deaths were not caused as a result of a rape or
sexual assault.

On the other hand, we believe that a sexual assault kit should have been
taken and that probably their own witnesses will agree with that to
establish time of death. You can determine whether or not there was any
sexual activity that took place with the victim, and at that point in
time, that may be a way to establish when the person was last alive. At
least, it's something to explore. And a clothed or unclothed body has
nothing to do with those photographs. And then the last thing which I
believe has some evidentiary value, but again the prejudicial effect
outweighs it, are the individual stab wounds in the body. And there when
you get down to the issue of the type of weapon and how many weapons
were used becomes important. So for isolated photographs of that, even
though we believe they can be demonstrated on boards and drawings,
certainly we would say that in a weighing process, that one certainly at
least weighs closely. And again, we would ask they not be included
before the jury because we don't think that the probative effect is
significant and that the prejudicial effect is great. But clearly, your
Honor--you've been in the courts your entire legal career, and I would
say it would be very rare that anyone would look at these photographs
and not really get sick to their stomach no matter how many photographs
you've looked at, no matter how many crime scenes you've seen and that
adding the autopsy photographs can only do one thing; and that's
infuriate and inflame the passion of the jury. With your permission, I
would prefer if Dean Uelmen addressed some of the other issues that were
raised, especially if you want to get into jury instructions, things
like that. I can do that if you want to stick to the one-lawyer rule.

*THE COURT:* Well, since Dean Uelmen's come all the way down this
afternoon, I'll hear from him.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Thank you very much.

*THE COURT:* On that specific issue. That means I'm have to hear Mr.
Kennedy on the flip side.

*MR. KELBERG:* It's Mr. Lynch, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. Mr. Lynch. I'm sorry.

*MR. KELBERG:* At least he would like to be call appropriately.

*THE COURT:* Sorry.

*MR. UELMEN:* Thank you, your Honor. I will be mercifully brief. I was
watching Rumpole of the Bailey last night and I'm going to borrow a line
from him. He suggested in the case he was litigating that there was a
real danger of premature adjudication. And I think we have that danger
presented here in terms of the issue of premeditation, deliberation and
malice in the context in which it's being presented in this case.
Clearly, the Prosecution does have the burden of proving these elements
beyond a reasonable doubt. But the issue that your Honor has to address
is whether there is need for this evidence to prove these elements in
the face of any real issue being presented in the case in the context of
a case in which the Defense is really not putting these factors in issue
in terms of the Defense that is being presented. Clearly the Defense
being presented from the outset of this case is that Mr. Simpson did not
do it. Not that it was done without premeditation or without malice, but
that he didn't do it. So the position of the Defense will be that it
would be inappropriate for the Court to instruct the jury as to lesser
included offenses because those instructions would be inconsistent with
the Defense being presented. And we will at the appropriate time present
authority to the Court. I can--if your Honor wishes to look at some of
these cases at this point, we'll be relying on People versus Trimbell,
16 Cal. App. 4th 1255, a 1993 case, and People versus Hardy , 2 Cal. 4th
86, a 1992 case for the proposition that it is improper for the Court to
give instructions as to lesser offenses over the objection of the
Defendant when those instructions are inconsistent with the Defense
presented. Now, there are other cases saying that the Court on its own
may instruct as to lesser offenses that are consistent with the Defense,
cases such as where the Defendant maintains that it was an accident. And
the issue that's presented by the evidence is the intent to rebut or to
contest the showing of an accident, but it's not inconsistent with the
Defendant's admission that he actually did the act. But here we will
have a situation in which these instructions would be inconsistent with
the Defense. But again, I come back to the point that your Honor doesn't
need to decide at this point what instructions are going to be given to
the jury with respect to lesser included offenses.

What your Honor needs to decide at this point is whether this evidence,
which is highly inflammatory, very prejudicial in terms of the emotional
response it is likely to invoke from jurors who have never been exposed
to photographs of this nature before, in terms of what is actually at
issue in this case, what issues the jury actually has to decide. And our
contention is of course that all of these elements can be proven, the
Prosecution can meet its burden without burdening the jury's ability to
rationally Judge this evidence by highly inflammatory and emotional
evidence. The second quick point I wanted to make was very specifically
directed to photos G1, G2, G5, B1, B2 and B5. These are the full-body
photographs. And your Honor will discover that the only wounds referred
to by the Prosecution that appear in these full-body photographs that
they claim do not appear in the more detailed closer photographs are
abrasions. There are no knife wounds. And if they're saying the real
need for these pictures is to illustrate the nature of the knife wounds,
the nature of the abrasions is not going to be an issue. If it is, of
course, they can just prop a very close-up photograph of the abrasion.
But to allow in these full-body photographs simply to show the presence
of an abrasion that is not really going to even be an issue with respect
to any of the testimony that's going to be elicited again really weighs
on the side of overwhelming prejudice being balanced against a very
minimal probative value.

*THE COURT:* But what would you say in response to the argument that
those are necessary to show the nature of the struggle that went on there?

*MR. UELMEN:* Well, the answer of course is that these photographs don't
show the nature of this struggle. Perhaps individual wounds, if there's
going to be opinions offered with respect to how a particular knife
wound occurred, for example, Defense wounds on the hands, that sort of
thing, that's not what these pictures show. They simply show the entire
body laid out without enough detail with respect to any of these wounds
to draw any conclusions from them. The conclusions they want to draw
will come from the very detailed close-up photographs with respect to
the knife wounds, and none of the very minor abrasions that they point
to that appear in these photographs that don't appear in the others
really are going to be relevant with respect to litigating any of those
issues. So with respect to these six photographs, there is really no
need to expose the jury to them in terms of any of the issues we're
talking about litigating. Now, the final point I wanted to make was,
with respect to individual photographs being used to show the nature of
the wounds, the real gist of the People's argument to utilize these
photographs is that they want to anticipate the challenge that they see
coming with respect to the competence of the Coroner in terms of the
conclusions that he is going to draw.

*THE COURT:* Well, hasn't Mr. Cochran in his opening statement sort of
fired the salvo across the bow of the Prosecution's ship here?

*MR. UELMEN:* Well, the salvo was a very--it was not specifically
directed at any particular wounds with respect to the competence of the
Coroner. And what we're dealing with here is, in effect, an argument
that because we have an incompetent Coroner, that should give us a wider
entry to tracking out all of the full color photographs taken during the
autopsy and showing them to the jury even though if we had a competent
Coroner, this exercise would be unnecessary. I would fully concede that
if we get up and we challenge the Coroner and we say, "your conclusion
about this particular wound is incompetent. There's nothing here in this
wound to justify the conclusion that you come to," and the Coroner is
then in a position of having to explain how it is that the conclusion is
justified from the wound, that the best thing to do is bring out the
photograph. And obviously we will have opened the door then to allowing
that photograph to be used and we will have nothing to complain about if
the photograph is then used. But what they are proposing is to
anticipate that such a challenge will be made with respect to every one
of multiple stab wounds of both victims and that therefore justifies
them on their direct examination before we have even challenged the
Coroner to bring these photographs out and display them to the jury. And
I think a much more rational approach to this process would be, if a
particular challenge is made with respect to a particular wound, all
right, we'll bring out the picture. But until that happens, there is no
relevance in terms of any contested issue to require that this highly
inflammatory evidence be presented in advance.

*THE COURT:* Well, Dean Uelmen, haven't we also got the problem though
where you have asked permission of the Court to use two cases in Dr.
Golden's past autopsy history where it's conceded that he made mistakes
on certain opinions that he rendered regarding other wounds? I can't
recollect--

*MR. KELBERG:* Gunshot wounds, entry, exit and distance from the point
of fire.

*MR. UELMEN:* Your Honor, it's incorrect to say that we asked
permission. We responded to a motion in limine filed by the Prosecution--

*THE COURT:* I'm sorry. You're correct. Limit.

*MR. UELMEN:* --to prevent us from asking those questions. And of
course, our argument was that these prior incidents will be relevant in
terms of the weight that the jury should give to the opinions of the
Coroner in terms of his competence.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Thank you, sir.

*MR. UELMEN:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* Good to see you again.

*MR. KELBERG:* May I briefly respond, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Briefly.

*MR. KELBERG:* I'm glad to see that Dean Uelmen and I share a fondness
for Rumpole of the Bailey, but unlike last night's episode, I prefer to
recall--

*THE COURT:* Wasn't he the client?

*MR. KELBERG:* He was the client last evening. But I prefer to recall an
episode from several seasons ago where Rumpole was regaling others with
respect to a criminal homicide case where he defended an individual
charged with murder, and he referred to the case as a case of blood. And
he relished in it because he brought out his forensic pathology textbook
and he was able to cross-examine a forensic pathologist on blood
evidence and to basically show that in fact, a mistake had been made in
an interpretation by the expert; and as a result, his client was
acquitted. And he relished that. Well, this is a case of blood, and it's
a case of blood because it has been made so by the Defendant's actions.
This Court must recall that the standard to apply on these photographs
is not whether the prejudice outweighs the probative value, but whether
the probative value is substantially outweighed by any prejudicial
effect. Now, as counsel talks about just briefly, going through the
issues, Mr. Shapiro says the type of weapon is irrelevant unless we can
tie a weapon to Simpson. Not true. If the jury believes, as the evidence
will show, that one weapon could have caused all of these stab wounds,
then the jury is going to ask itself, okay, who is physically superior,
agile and has a motive to murder these two human beings? If one knife
could do it, who's a person who physically could do it with one knife
and who would have a motive to do it with one knife? And of course, your
Honor, I anticipate my colleagues at the end of the case will suggest
that the person who fits that criteria is seated at the end of counsel
table when the jury will hear those arguments. The second thing is about
the time of death in the sexual assault kit--

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Your Honor, I take exception to that.

*MR. KELBERG:* That's--I put--actually-- I'm sorry, Mr. Shapiro--that
shows I haven't been watching. I gather Mr. Shapiro sits at the far seat
at counsel table unlike the usual situation, but obviously I added the
caveat that when the jury hears the argument. But actually, Mr. Shapiro
may be the one who's at the far end of counsel table. We'll have to
change that to the person who's kind of snuggled between Mr.
Cochran--and I'm not sure who is on the other side at the time of the
jury's appearance. The time of death in the sexual assault kit. Counsel
it seems to me has got to offer some evidence how a sexual assault kit
to show sexual contact unrelated to the criminal homicides that are
being prosecuted here will tell this jury whether Nicole Brown Simpson
died at 10:15 versus 11:00 o'clock. The evidence is clear already she
was alive at 9:42, telephone call, telephone records. We know she was
alive a period thereafter. Why? Because she talked to Ronald Goldman.

She called Mezzaluna restaurant. And there's been a witness who
testified that she called and who then put her in contact with Mr.
Goldman. We know Mr. Goldman's alive at that time because he's on the
other end of the line and we know he's alive for some further period of
time because he's got to go home, he's got to change clothes because
when he's murdered, he's not wearing what he was wearing at Mezzaluna
restaurant. Now, is the Defense going to actually offer a witness who is
going to say that a sexual assault kit would have shown if there was
semen found, that one can determine whether that semen was deposited
between 10:00 o'clock in the evening and 11:00 o'clock in the evening? I
would like to see that expert and I would love to cross-examine that
expert. I don't think they're going to have somebody who is going to be
willing to come into court, take an oath to tell the truth and talk with
reasonable medical certainty that such a thing exists. It does not. And
unless they can put that into an offer of proof of a real witness with
real credentials, I submit to the Court it's completely irrelevant. If
the Court finds it's irrelevant, I have no problem stipulating, and
we'll withdraw B1 and B2. But I don't believe that they can show it's
relevant, and clearly, 352 comes into play even if a 782 type of
analysis that would normally apply with victims of sexual assaults and
limitations on cross-examination for unrelated sexual activity might not
be appropriate to discuss. A few other points. The nature of the assault
is extremely important because if the nature of the assault is such that
the jury finds that there was a very short and very violent attack on
Mr. Goldman from which he basically was unable to defend himself and at
the same time on Nicole Brown Simpson, she has relatively few if any
injuries, it will be clear to this jury how one man could kill these two
human beings in the short order of time it would require and leave the
kind of evidence that these photographs demonstrate were left from the
murderous assault. Now, with respect to the lesser included's--Hardy, I
haven't looked at in a while. I'm not terribly concerned about Trimbell
because it's a Court of Appeal case and we have Wickersham which to my
knowledge has not been overruled. There is a difference with respect to
instructions on affirmative Defense related type of lesser offenses. But
that's not the same thing as lesser included offenses. And as we quoted
in our response letter, Wickersham says, the tactics of counsel do not
control the obligation of the Court because it's the Court's obligation
to see that justice is done, that jurors are not put in the untenable
position of saying to themselves, hey, you know, I believe this person's
guilty of second degree murder, but I don't think he's guilty beyond a
reasonable doubt of first degree murder. But gee, I've only got the
option of first degree murder or finding the person not guilty. Am I
supposed to acquit a murderer because I'm not convinced he committed
first degree murder or am I supposed to convict a man of a crime I don't
believe he committed, first degree murder, simply because I'd rather see
him convicted of first degree murder than walk out the door because I
believe he's a second degree murderer. And that's the Hobson's choice I
mentioned before that the Court is to ensure this jury need not be
placed in to making. With respect to the G1, G2, G5, B5--B5 I think in
our original letter, your Honor, we have pointed out, that will be
cropped. And the G5 cannot be cropped because it also shows the
abdominal flank wound, the fatal abdominal stab wound on the left flank.
But because as to Miss Brown Simpson, the lower torso leg area is not
relevant with respect to the purposes of that photograph we have
submitted in the writing, and we have not cropped it because we want to
see what the Court wants us to do with respect to the photograph. But it
would be cropped so that the Court is clear. We get back to Dean
Uelmen's letter, and he's saying, hey, look it, we get to raise the
issue of incompetency. And as the Court says from its recollection, it
seems that Mr. Cochran's already done that. Let's face it, Judge, does
the Defense get to open the door, then slam the door closed on the
Prosecution when it wants to bring the full facts out and then open the
door again when they do cross and make it appear to this jury that this
Prosecution is trying to hide from this jury the true facts of what Dr.
Golden did or didn't do? As we said again in our informal discussion, is
the Court going to tell this jury, oh, ladies and gentlemen, the reason
the D.A. Didn't bring this evidence out of Dr. Golden's mistakes is
because I said, in accordance with the wishes of the Defense, that they
couldn't do it and that it was only if the Defense went into his
incompetency that the Prosecution on redirect examination can go into
this? There is such a thing as credibility with the jury, your Honor and
credibility to the system of a search for the truth, and we intend to be
fully credible. In setting aside 785 which says a party calling a
witness can attack that witness' own credibility, the fact of the matter
is that the purpose of these photographs is not to show that Dr. Golden
made mistakes. The photographs will in fact show that he made mistakes.
The purpose of the photographs is to show that O.J.

Simpson murdered these two human beings and murdered them with
premeditation and deliberation. There will be the concomitant effect
that Dr. Golden's mistakes will be brought forth, and they will be
brought forth fully and with candor on direct examination as we are
entitled to do and as this jury is entitled to hear. But make the record
clear that we are not using the, quote, real purpose that Dean Uelmen
attributes to us of trying to bring forth Dr. Golden's incompetency for
the purpose of getting otherwise irrelevant photographs before this
jury. We are bringing these photographs forward because they will show
that one perpetrator sufficiently motivated with the physical strength
and agility murdered these two human beings in the span of a very short
period of time. And these photographs will prove that. And unfortunately
for Dr. Golden, they will also prove that he made a number of mistakes,
and they will also prove that not one of his mistakes bears any
significance to the case. I'll submit the matter, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Madam reporter, how are you? I had a question I
needed to ask of Mr. Kelberg.

*THE COURT REPORTER:* Fine.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Kelberg, Dean Uelmen does raise the issue regarding the
exaggeration of the nature of some of the wounds by the Coroners placing
the block on G37, B13 and B16, which does expose it in a manner that
appears unnatural.

*MR. KELBERG:* It is not necessarily unnatural, your Honor. The reason
there is a gape to these wounds is because of something called Langer's
lines. The way the tissue is in the body, when you cut along that line,
you are going to cause the wound to separate and it will appear to gape.
But the pictures show not only that it is a gaping wound, but they will
give an indication of the depth of the wound and they will show, for
example, in the case of Nicole Brown Simpson, that what's called the
right thyroid cornu, C-O-R-N-U, was cut by the knife because it went
that deep. It will show the area of the cervical spine that was also
contacted by the knife going that deep. It will show the area how deep
you must go to get to the jugular, how--

*THE COURT:* I gets the depth issue.

*MR. KELBERG:* Okay. It also shows two superficial incise wounds, very
superficial. The Court will recall them, they're parallel, almost
parallel. I think we described them as semi-parallel in G37, Mr.
Goldman. I don't know if the Court wants to pull the photograph and
refresh its recollection. That's a very significant photograph. Besides
it shows so many of the injuries, those superficial incise wounds in a
parallel nature suggest control, control of Mr. Goldman by the
perpetrator. And again, this is material that will go to premeditation
and deliberation.

*THE COURT:* I recall.

*MR. KELBERG:* All right. So that this photograph shows many things
besides the nature of the stab wound. The stab wound which is shown in
G37 if I may pull mine and turn it so--I just want to be sure that I am
covered.

*THE COURT:* I would direct the still photographer and the television
camera not to attempt to--Mr. Kelberg, you're doing that the exact wrong
place.

*MR. KELBERG:* Oh, I'm sorry. As I said, I don't know the dynamics of
this court. Can the Court direct me to where the black spot is where
apparently no one can watch you? Can I crawl under the desk or
something? Let me see if I can do it this way.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. KELBERG:* Almost like playing cards unfortunately, your Honor.
The photograph in the appearance of the stab wound here on the left side
of the neck to Mr. Goldman is relevant because, as we again mentioned at
the informal conference, Dr. Golden in his original report interpreted
this stab wound and a stab wound here around the left ear and then going
down the side of the face as being the product of one wound. And in his
addendum, which is also part of the materials I think you, if you didn't
have with our original letter, you do now have as part of all of the
autopsy materials, he changed his opinion to reflect two stab wounds.
That wound is important to see for the purpose of interpreting is that
one stab wound producing two injuries or is it two stab wounds producing
two separate wounds. With respect to the G13, G16 and in particular, the
major wound that is the gaping wound, what will be important, your
Honor, is, those photographs show that there is no cutting around the
margins of that incise stab wound, which will be significant for the
Coroner to conclude from the absence of that that Nicole Brown Simpson
was incapacitated and unable to resist the knife that is being drawn
across her throat, that the absence of that kind of cutting action along
the sides of the wound demonstrates that she was in fact incapacitated
because normally, if you were physically able to respond, you would be
moving your head around; and in so doing, you would create margins
around the outer edges--I am sorry--cuts around the outer margins of
that incise stab wound. And, your Honor, again, these are not unnatural
because in fact, that is the way her head was in fact held at the time
the stab wound/incise wound is inflicted. It is most consistent with the
head being held back and exposing the full area of the neck to create
that kind of gape.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Your Honor, may I address just a few points?

*THE COURT:* Few points. Madam reporter?

*THE COURT REPORTER:* Fine.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Your Honor, with regard to the depth of the wounds on
either of the victims, we are not going to contest that and we could
stipulate to that as a matter of fact. Mr. Kelberg demonstrated how easy
it is to simply articulate that. One need not look in someone's throat
if somebody offers competent testimony that they have a sore throat. And
the same thing here. We need not look into the actual cavity of a body
to determine an injury that can be described without contest by the
Coroner. With regard to the competency issue, if Mr. Kelberg in fact is
telling your Honor that the Coroner who did the autopsy in this case is
incompetent and they have a duty to bring that forward, don't they have
an equal duty not to present a witness who is incompetent? And finally,
with regard to the need to do a sexual kit to determine whether there
was any sexual activity, we are not required to tell the People what our
Defense is, but we could easily suggest to your Honor a scenario that if
we can account for the whereabouts of Nicole Brown Simpson the entire
day up until the time she left Baskin and Robbins and put her with other
people and show during that period of time, that when she was at a
concert or at an ice cream parlor or in the accompaniment of her
children, that circumstantially no sexual activity would ever take
place, but that there was evidence of sexual activity, the window could
be narrowed to a time after perhaps she had a visitor. And I think that
would be very relevant evidence to this jury. Thank you.

*MR. KELBERG:* Your Honor, could I just correct the record briefly?

*THE COURT:* Correct the record?

*MR. KELBERG:* As to what Mr. Shapiro said about what we have an
obligation to do or not to do in the way of presenting witnesses. Very
briefly.

*THE COURT:* No, I don't think you need to address that. All right.
Thank you, counsel. As you know, this involves--

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Your Honor, I have to correct something. I said Baskins
and Robbins. It was Ben and Jerry's. Mr. Dean Uelmen pointed that out to me.

*THE COURT:* All right. Counsel, as you know, this involves literally
dozens of individual decisions that I have to make with regards to each
one of these photographs. So it will take me some time to again go
through them individually. But I will issue a written ruling as to each
one of these.

*MR. KELBERG:* Your Honor, could I--

*THE COURT:* Let me just add, the question I wanted to ask though was
timing.

*MR. KELBERG:* Exactly.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Kelberg, my guess is that we will see Mr. Sims probably
for the remainder of Monday and perhaps into Tuesday. We will probably
see Miss Montgomery probably maybe even for the remainder of the week.
Maybe less than that.

*MR. KELBERG:* I had a somewhat different timetable presented. I talked
with Mr. Shapiro, Dean Uelmen again. I think no one is certain. We have
to be prepared to go sometime next week, although I think we probably
both agree or all of us tend to agree that it's more likely it would be
the Tuesday after memorial day as a starting point. But I believe
there's another witness besides Miss Montgomery who will be called as
part of the DNA presentation.

*THE COURT:* I think Dr. Weir.

*MR. KELBERG:* No. That's actually not the name--I believe Mr. Yamauchi
is going to be called. I'm not sure whether there's anybody else besides
Mr. Yamauchi and Miss Montgomery, but I was led to believe we had two
witnesses for certain after Mr. Sims has completed his examination.

*THE COURT:* Well, we're going to need to see Dr. Weir or somebody for
some numbers.

*MR. KELBERG:* I'll pass that information on if it hasn't already been
communicated.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. KELBERG:* But--

*THE COURT:* Let me ask you the more important logistical question. How
long do you need to put this exhibit together?

*MR. KELBERG:* If in fact it's going to be after memorial day and the
Court could issue a ruling by late next week, that would be fine. But if
we get a situation where we have to go sometime Thursday or perhaps
Friday morning, I would certainly like to have a decision by as early on
Wednesday as possible to have the time.

*THE COURT:* So you would like one full working day in between?

*MR. KELBERG:* I think we would need more than one full working day. It
depends again on--we have had boards that are prepared in a mock-up
situation so that depending on which photographs the Court allows, we
are going on the assumption initially that our photographs that we have
proffered will be admitted. And as a result, the boards are prepared
with an outline as to the photos that we have proffered. If the Court
restricts us in some fashion, then we have to modify one or more boards,
that will take a little time. I don't anticipate a great deal of dime.

*THE COURT:* All right. With regards to your boards, do you anticipate
anything other than photographs themselves?

*MR. KELBERG:* Yes. And actually I think Mr. Shapiro misunderstood what
I was telling him as far as a wound chart. It is a chart, not drawing of
wounds that relate to this case. But in fact, it will be a summary of
all of the findings of Dr. Lakshsmanan Sathyavagiswaran who will be one
of the witnesses that I will call in the area of forensic pathology. It
will summarize all of the findings. It will identify where in the
protocol or the addendum or in the appropriate diagrams the wound is
either seen or described. It will also point out mistakes that in the
opinion of Dr. Lakshsmanan--I won't pronounce his last name any more
times than I have to--where they are in his opinion seen and giving an
overview of his significant findings. I believe this will be of enormous
assistance to the jury in following with the photographs. The only other
things that I would--

*THE COURT:* Well, keep in mind the Court's caution about things that
are--go beyond description and go into argument.

*MR. KELBERG:* I don't believe--

*THE COURT:* Characterization.

*MR. KELBERG:* No. These would be fully I believe admissible opinions.
Obviously anything that's listed as far as this is an abrasion or this
is a contusion or whatever is an opinion, which would be testified to.
But because of the number of injuries and, quite frankly, the number of
instances where they are not addressed in the original protocol or
perhaps not diagrammed in the original documents or not addressed at all
even in the addendum, we have in this chart form a way of conveying this
information, which quite frankly, your Honor, if you look at the autopsy
reports, as you have undoubtedly done, and then you look at the
addendums, you can spend a whole lot of time trying to piece together
one with the other and trying to figure out how you can make sense of this.

*THE COURT:* It does require flipping back and forth a lot.

*MR. KELBERG:* And that's what this chart avoids. The only other thing,
we would have the original autopsy materials and the addendums available
so that one can see where these things actually are, if they're
diagrammed or where they're described. But I would anticipate spending
little if any time with respect to anything more than showing the jury
where they can be found or where the diagram may show a particular
wound. Those would be the major things. We have some charts that deal
with overviews of the topics of sharp force injuries just so the jury
can have an understanding of what that topic is, how you use a knife and
look at its dimensions and correlate it with depths of wounds and widths
of wounds and lengths of wounds to assume or trying to form an opinion
as to the kind of weapon. We have time of death charts because, as I
think both Dean Uelmen and Mr. Shapiro have said, time of death appears
to be an issue that everyone wants to talk about. And I think by the
time we have completed our presentation, we will have a very
knowledgeable jury about the intricacies and complexities of estimating
a range for time of death.

*THE COURT:* What's your estimation for your presentation on direct
examination?

*MR. KELBERG:* Because of the completeness and candor of the direct
examination, I would anticipate perhaps three days with Dr. Lakshsmanan.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. KELBERG:* Dr. Golden, I would anticipate will have a shorter direct
because I believe most of what needs to be covered will have been
covered through the earlier witness. But I can't speak as to what the
cross-examination would be as to either.

*THE COURT:* All right. When do you think these exhibits, the ones that
you've just described, will be available to exhibit to Mr. Shapiro so we
can take up any objections ahead of time.

*MR. KELBERG:* I understand that. And we want that as well. Quite
frankly, your Honor, we're trying very hard to get them completed
through the services that are available. I would anticipate next week. I
have indicated that we wanted everything done by Wednesday of next week
on the assumption that we might have to go on Wednesday of next week. It
sounds to me from what the Court is saying, that's probably not
realistic, and from what Mr. Shapiro has indicated, is not realistic.
But if we can have them by Wednesday, then I think we have an
opportunity to meet with counsel, show them what we have and go from there.

*THE COURT:* I was just wondering whether or not I'd have to spend the
weekend doing this.

*MR. KELBERG:* Doing the photos? I think if the Court is correct in
believing that we go to the end of the week with the witnesses that the
Court is already aware of and then we start on the Tuesday after
memorial day or someday thereafter, that if the Court could give us a
ruling by let's say Wednesday or Thursday, Wednesday or Thursday of next
week, that will be sufficient time be able to do what we need to do.

*THE COURT:* All right. I'm going to order the Prosecution then, Mr.
Kelberg, to notify Mr. Shapiro as soon as you have those other display
boards available to make them available for counsel to see so we can
take up any objections before hand.

*MR. KELBERG:* Absolutely.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. Anything else?

*MR. KELBERG:* There is one other thing that I wanted to place on the
record. We've discussed it also. The incidents that were the subject of
our previous motion regarding Dr. Golden's mistakes arise from a segment
of prime time live. In that same segment, they refer to two other cases
of Dr. Golden's in which it is alleged that Dr. Golden made mistakes. In
a letter that Mr. Hodgman sent to Mr. Shapiro dated May 3rd, we asked
Mr. Shapiro to tell us whether or not he intended to go into those
areas. We would raise a different issue than we raised with respect to
the first two incidents because we would contend no mistakes were made.
Unlike the other incidents where we agree mistakes were made, we contend
in these two cases there were no mistakes. If counsel intends to go into
that, we would ask for a 402 hearing before the testimony of any
forensic pathologist called by the Prosecution to see whether or not
that's fair game.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* Your Honor, I really can't make that decision yet, and
the reason is, it appears from what counsel has stated that they are
going to impeach their own witness. And, therefore, further impeachment
by us would only be cumulative and be redundant. So if that in fact is
what the Prosecution is going to do, I would say we won't have any need
to--much cross-examination at all of Dr. Golden.

*THE COURT:* Of course, that doesn't answer the question.

*MR. KELBERG:* That's why Mr. Shapiro is such a skillful lawyer.

*MR. SHAPIRO:* I don't know until we hear what they say.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. We'll stand in recess as far
as this case is concerned until 9:00 o'clock on Monday. Thank you.

/(At 4:00 P.M., an adjournment was taken until, Monday, May 22, 1995,
9:00 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California, )

Plaintiff, )

Vs. ) no. BA097211 )

Orenthal James Simpson, )

Defendant. )

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Friday, May 19, 1995

Volume 150 pages 28354 through 28536, inclusive

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*APPEARANCES:*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*FOR THE PEOPLE:* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*FOR THE DEFENDANT:* Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan, Esquire
2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California 90067
Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire Shawn
Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los Angeles,
California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian, Esquire
Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck, Esquire
Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C. Thompson,
Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_I N D E X_*__

__Index for volume 150 pages 28354 - 28536 day date session page vol.

Friday May 19, 1995 A.M. 28354 150 P.M. 28481 150

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_P*ROCEEDINGS*_

__Motion re introduction of 28481 150 autopsy photographs

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*LEGEND:* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX* of witnesses

*PEOPLE'S* witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Sims, Gary 150 (Resumed) 28363bs

*ALPHABETICAL INDEX* of witnesses witnesses direct cross redirect
recross vol.

Sims, Gary 150 (Resumed) 28363bs

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_E*XHIBITS*_

__*DEFENSE* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

1161 - Photograph of 28460 150 a glove with a cut-out at the back wrist

1162 - 2 photographs 28462 150 of the inside surface of a glove with 5
cut-outs

1163 - Photograph of 28462 150 a glove with a cut-out area of "G-10"

1164-A - 2 photographs 28463 150 of a glove with a cut-out areas "G-11"
and "G-12"

1164-B - 2 photographs 28463 150 of a glove with a cut-out areas "G-10"
and "G-13"

