*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; MONDAY, MAY 15, 1995 9:02 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES: *(Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning, counsel. Back on the record in
the Simpson matter. Mr. Simpson is again present with counsel, Mr.
Cochran, Mr. Scheck, Mr. Neufeld. The People are represented by Mr.
Clarke and Mr. Darden. The jury is not present. Counsel, is there
anything we need to take up before we invite the jurors to rejoin us and
the conclusion of Dr. Cotton's testimony?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Two matters, your Honor. One is--one has to do with the
cross-examination of Dr. Cotton. In particular, with regard to the
National Academy of Sciences book /"Reporting DNA Technology in Forensic
Science."/ What happened on Thursday and Friday, your Honor, is that the
witness, who obviously is extremely familiar with this book, has read it
very carefully, in fact, carries her own copy with her in her briefcase,
was allowed to avoid being impeached by that book by simply saying as to
those portions of the text which she disagrees with, she doesn't rely
upon. I think if we allow that type of approach to continue--

*THE COURT:* Do you have any case authority indicating that the Court's
rulings on this were inappropriate?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, I haven't seen any case that stands for the
proposition that a witness can selectively pick and choose which
sections of a learned treatise she relies upon solely to avoid saying
that--I'm sorry--solely to enable her to say that for every section that
I disagree with I don't rely on it so you can't bring it to my
attention. It would stand the entire rule of impeaching a witness by
learned treatise on its head. That is what is so remarkable with this
and that is what is going on here, and I don't think that should be
allowed to continue. And I have never seen any case anywhere that allows
a witness to draw those kind of distinctions between, well, page 365 I
agree with, but page 366 I don't and so forth and so on. Obviously she
is only going to then rely on those sections she agrees with so one
could never under that approach ever use a learned treatise to impeach a
witness.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, I think Mr. Neufeld mischaracterizes what the
witness has done when he states that she has done this intentionally to
avoid impeachment. The truth is she has relied on only portions of that
material because those portions are scientifically appropriate and other
portions are scientifically inappropriate, so I think to characterize it
as selective reliance to make testimony sound better is absolutely
absurd in the context of this witness' testimony. The Court asked Mr.
Neufeld do you have any authority to demonstrate why the Court's
previous rulings are incorrect and Mr. Neufeld simply asked the Court I
don't know of any authority that says to the contrary. That is what
demonstrates that it can be done the way the Court has said. This Court
has previously ruled on this matter now a number of times and I think
the Court's rulings are absolutely appropriate under the law, because
otherwise the Court would be allowing inadmissible hearsay to come into
court.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, the only point on that, very briefly, is that
it is her opinion that certain portions are scientifically
inappropriate, but clearly those portions of the report that she regards
as scientifically inappropriate were written by the same people who she
felt wrote other portions of the report that were scientifically
appropriate. The only point I'm trying to make, your Honor, is I can't
believe that it is an appropriate attitude within the scientific
community to simply reject out of hand, which is what the rule requires
so far, reject out of hand those statements, those recommendations
written by people in a book in a learned treatise in the same book in
which you agree with other portions of it and so those statements can
come in. It is setting up some kind of artificial construct which I
think, you know, completely dilutes the entire purpose of impeachment
with a learned treatise.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Neufeld, you said you had a second matter
you wanted to bring up?

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes, your Honor. The second point has to do with the
Court's ruling that the People are required to produce the aggregated
frequency for mixtures, and that issue will be addressed by Dr. William
Thompson.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Thompson, good morning.

*MR. THOMPSON:* Good morning, your Honor. Yes, we do have a problem
regarding the statistics to be presented in connection with mixtures,
such as the mixed stains in the Bronco and stain 78. Last week the Court
ruled that statistics must be presented in connection with those
mixtures so that the jury would know what to make of them, what to make
of the fact, for example, that Nicole Brown Simpson is included in the
Bronco mixture.

*THE COURT:* I understand why I did it.

*MR. THOMPSON:* Over the weekend we received reports from the
Prosecution regarding the statistics that they intend to present and we
have serious problems with them. We think that the reports that they
have shown us of what they have learned to do failed to comply with the
Court's ruling on this matter and we have a series of objections to them
that we want to state now.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. THOMPSON:* I think at the time of the Court's ruling last week I
think we all contemplated that the statistics in question would be
frequency statistics to be computed in accordance with the national
research council's guidelines. So, for example, to allow the jury to
evaluate what it means that Nicole Brown Simpson has genotypes
consistent with certain stains in the Bronco, the jury needs to know
what percentage of people in the population at large have genotypes
consistent with those stains and what percentage would be excluded. And
the national research council provides a very simple straightforward way
of doing those calculations by summing the matching and non-matching
genotypes. What we got from the Prosecution and what they intend to
present apparently is not frequencies, but something called likelihood
ratios. Likelihood ratios are a ratio of two conditional probabilities,
where a conditional probability, as you probably know, is a probability
of one event calculated on the assumption that certain other events
occurred. These likelihood ratios--we know of no precedent for the
admission of likelihood ratios in a criminal matter. In the notice of
objections we filed with the Court in March we stated a series of
objections to likelihood ratios. All of the objections we stated in our
previous memo apply to the likelihood ratios they are offering here, and
more. We think the particular likelihood ratios that they are offering
that are found in a report prepared by Professor Weir of North Carolina
University are lacking in foundation because the assumptions that are
predicate to the conditional probabilities don't necessarily jive with
the facts of this case and in some ways are completely inconsistent with
the Prosecution's theory of the case. So what they have come up with is
not something that complies with the Court's order; it is a convoluted
attempt to do an end run around the Court's order and present a complex
form of statistical analysis that is unprecedented and that we think is
quite misleading. Should they--should they be allowed to present this or
attempt to present it, we think a 402 hearing may be necessary to
evaluate whether these likelihood ratio statistics are in fact
admissible. We think this is a failure to comply with the Court's order.
We ask that they be ordered to present the appropriate statistics
computed in accordance with the national research council's method, or
that the DNA picture evidence be struck from the record.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke.

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes, your Honor. Again this raises the question that I
broached with the Court Friday. What numbers does the Defendant want? I
mean, perhaps we can agree on that. But more importantly, what the
Defense received was materials from Dr. Bruce weir that this witness, I
believe the testimony will show, understands the calculation process,
can perform it herself and will do so. Contrary to the Defense's
assertion, there is no intent on our part to introduce likelihood
ratios. There is a good deal of data in this report that we are
referring to, it is approximately twelve pages in length, and it
includes frequency information as well that we plan or I plan to elicit
from Dr. Cotton during testimony.

*THE COURT:* Do you plan to elicit an aggregation?

*MR. CLARKE:* Could I have just a moment?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, would it be possible for Dr. Cotton to
answer the Court's question instead of it being through myself as a conduit?

*THE COURT:* Certainly. It would save some time, I suspect.

*THE CLERK:* Would you like her on the witness stand?

*THE COURT:* No. Dr. Cotton, good morning. What is it that we are going
to be hearing and how will it be presented?

*DR. COTTON:* Let's take the RFLP separately from the PCR for a moment.
Although the calculations are done the same, for the RFLP we intended to
just discuss the two genetic locations where on the individual film you
have evidence of a mixture that will be MS1 and G3. And to simply give
the figures for what is the probability, you would pick a pair of people
from the population that would have this combination of genotypes that
would give you this result. The same--so for the RFLP it is simply
giving that figure for the MS1 location and giving that figure for the
G3 locus. For the PCR the figures are done likewise. That is, what is
the probability you would pick a pair of individuals from the
population, so it takes into account all possible pairs that could have
given this distribution--this set of alleles, and sums those, and then
says what is the probability it would pick two pairs of people that
could give this? In his report Dr. Weir does provide information about
likelihood ratios, but it was not our intention to discuss that.

*THE COURT:* All right. What are the numbers that we are going to get on
the RFLP and the PCR aggregation?

*DR. COTTON:* I will have to get those out of my briefcase.

*THE COURT:* How about a ballpark figure?

*DR. COTTON:* The ballpark figures for the RFLP range sort of like 1 in
80 to one in either--it is either in the hundreds or thousands. It is
not in tens of thousands. The PCR numbers are similar. The reason that
they are similar is that for the RFLP you are just looking at a single
locus and giving information about that locus. The PCR you are giving
the composite information across all of the loci that we have done for PCR.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* To give the Court an example of sometimes the complexity
of this, if one were to take the boot drop, item no. 78, and determine
what is the probability of finding the 14 bands that were located, it
is, for instance, approximately two with about twelve zeros behind it. I
mean, they are astronomical, so it all depends on how the question is
framed. It is not our intent to present that type, at least during the
direct examination, but I think the Court is getting--I'm sure the Court
is getting a feel for characterizing this question can be difficult, but
I think we are--at least it is our intent to approach it in a very
conservative fashion.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Neufeld, any comment? Excuse me. Mr. Thompson.

*MR. THOMPSON:* Your Honor, I think it is clear from what has been said
that what they are offering is not what the national research council
called for.

*THE COURT:* Counsel, you have the same information before you. What
numbers do you come up with?

*MR. THOMPSON:* Let me show you. You know, I prepared a chart, your
Honor, showing what we think is the correct computation with regard to
stain no. 29, the Bronco steering wheel, and with your permission could
I show you and counsel a copy?

*THE COURT:* Please.

*MR. THOMPSON:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. THOMPSON:* Now, your Honor, the frequencies in this chart are
taken directly from Cellmark's own frequency data that was disclosed to
us in discovery from DNA page 1520. And in order to compute the
probability or the percentage of the population that would be consistent
with this mixed stain in the Bronco, all that is done is that one lists
all of the possible genotypes that one could have that could be
consistent with that stain, computes the frequency--adds up the
frequency of each of those genotypes in each of the relevant populations
and sum them. So we find that among Caucasians 45.4 percent of
Caucasians would match stain 29. 59.2 percent of African Americans, 48.8
percent of Hispanics would--would be included--included in the stain.
And the percentage excluded would be the complement, simply taking these
numbers and subtracting them from one. This is what the jury needs to
know in order to evaluate, for example, the fact that Nicole Brown
Simpson's genotypes match the stain. These statistics are not what the
Prosecution is offering. They are offering conditional probabilities.
Even if they don't frame them as a ratio of conditional probability,
they are still conditional probabilities. That is the probability of one
event conditioned on a set of assumptions. What Dr. Cotton discussed was
the probability of a pair of people giving certain results under certain
assumptions. Now, the problem is the assumptions. The conditional
numbers that Dr. Weir computed, for example, were all conditioned on the
assumption that the number of contributors to the mixed stains was two
individuals and only two and that somehow we knew that. Now, that might
be an appropriate statistic in a case where we know the number of
potential contributors to the stain, for example, a rape case where a
woman says that she was raped by two men, but in a case like this where
we don't know the number of contributors, it is without foundation and
irrelevant, prejudicial and completely inappropriate to allow them to
present statistics premised on certain assumptions when they cannot
demonstrate those assumptions are true. The arguments become circular.
In order to--in order to prove the Prosecution's theory of the case is
correct, they offer statistics that are premised on the assumption that
the Prosecution's theory of the case is correct and we go around and
around in a logical merry-go-round and that is why they are able to come
up with numbers like 1 in 100 or 1 in 50 when the NRC numbers are 45
percent, 59 percent, 48 percent. So, you know, this is--this is not
appropriate, it doesn't comply with the Court's order, and it is not
even consistent with their own chart. Their own chart, when they list
numbers is headed "frequency." They are not offering frequencies; they
are offering these complex conditional probabilities premised on sets of
assumptions which are going to be controversial and which I think may
not match the facts of this case. For example, if the Prosecution's
theory of the case is correct, the number of contributors to the
steering wheel stain has to be at least three, and yet the statistics
they are offering on that are probabilities based on the notion that
there are only two contributors and the statistics ask what is the
probability that by randomly choosing two and only two people you would
produce the exact results that we see here? That simply is not relevant
to the facts of this case.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Clarke.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Yes. With regard to--first of all, Mr. Thompson's
characterization is wrong as to the Prosecution's theory that there is
three donors on the steering wheel. All that has been reported by Dr.
Cotton thus far is that there are types from which two individuals
cannot be excluded and there is another allele and that is not
inconsistent with two contributors. We know there is at least two
because there is a picture. It may very well be only two.

*THE COURT:* I'm more interested not so much in the theory of the
Prosecution's case, but in the method in reaching this calculation in
the first place. Have you had the opportunity to review the proposal by
Professor Thompson with Dr. Cotton? Because this appears to be the
aggregation that is recommended at page 59 of the NRC report.

*MR. CLARKE:* Just very briefly. If I could, I would like to speak with
her a little bit more.

*THE COURT:* All right. When do you anticipate hitting this point in your--

*MR. CLARKE:* That is flexible with the Court's direct direction. If
cross-examination is finished and then I can conduct my redirect, which
at this point is not substantial, then perhaps--I see a smile on the
Court's face--then perhaps we could address this issue once Dr. Cotton
and I have had a chance to discuss it.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's do that. All right. We have framed the
issues. I think counsel should have the opportunity to go over with Dr.
Cotton what these numbers are. Professor Thompson, do you have a similar
calculation for the other stain?

*MR. THOMPSON:* I don't have it right now, your Honor. I would be happy
to discuss with Dr. Cotton how we think that should be approached.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. THOMPSON:* For that one we need some additional data which we have
access to and we do not.

*THE COURT:* Okay. All right. Then I propose that we proceed with the
jury, that probably what will occur is Dr. Cotton and Mr. Clarke will
have the opportunity to confer over the lunch hour, and let's start with
the jury now.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, if I may, could I ask that Dr. Weir's report
be marked as an exhibit for the Court's purposes only?

*THE COURT:* Yes. I would like to read it over the lunch hour as well.

*MR. CLARKE:* Fine.

/(Court's 11 for id = Dr. Weir's report)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Deputy Magnera, let's have the jurors, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. Let the record reflect that we have been rejoined by all the
members of our jury panel. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*THE COURT:* I understand we enjoyed our weekend activities?

*THE JURY: *Oh, yes.

*THE COURT:* I understand one of us was unusually lucky. All right. Dr.
Cotton, would you resume the witness stand, please.

/Robin Cotton, the witness on the stand at the time of the evening
adjournment, resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good morning again, Dr. Cotton.

*DR. COTTON:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* You are reminded, ma'am, you are still under oath. And Mr.
Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Congratulations, sir.

*JUROR NO. 1290:* Thanks.

*_CROSS-EXAMINATION (RESUMED_*_) B*Y MR. NEUFELD*_

_**_*MR. NEUFELD:* Good morning, Dr. Cotton.

*DR. COTTON:* Good morning, Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* What I would like to do, Dr. Cotton, is return to item 29
very briefly, which is where we left off Friday. On direct examination
you had testified that the Prosecutor's board was not correct because it
failed to include Nicole Brown Simpson as a potential contributor to the
mixed bloodstain on the steering wheel; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that is why you wrote in the name "Brown"?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. We need to prop that up so the jury can see what
we are talking about here.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, on Friday during cross-examination you
admitted that the no. 4 allele reflects the presence of a potential
third person into that mixture; is that correct?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* The 4 allele, if you assume that there are three people,
the 4 allele is a third person. Alternatively, the 4 allele could just
be a second person.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, isn't that true in fact with--

*DR. COTTON:* You do--

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry.

*DR. COTTON:* You can't tell from this data whether there is two or
three people there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In fact, in any instance where you have more than two
alleles, let's say you have three or four alleles present, you can't
tell whether it is a mixture of two people or more than two people, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It could be three people, right?

*DR. COTTON:* Could be.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It could be four people?

*DR. COTTON:* It could be.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right. But if we are now simply referring to the column
on that board, the second to the last column that says "not excluded,"
you would agree, I think you have already said, that Mr. Simpson cannot
be excluded, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I think you also said that you would agree that
Nicole Brown Simpson cannot be excluded as well, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But you are also saying that you can't exclude some other
person whose identity is unknown; isn't that correct, who possesses that
4 allele?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So what I would like you to do, Dr. Cotton, is to add, if
you would, under the category that says "not excluded," this additional
card that says "third person"--

*THE COURT:* Let me see counsel over at the side bar, please.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* With the reporter.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* Why don't you show Mr. Clarke what it is you were posting
on there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure. Similar to what they did on the blood vial that we
put up. I can't put up something permanent, so I have a metallic piece
that simply adds another category of people who cannot be excluded by
this result, which is simply a third person.

*THE COURT:* Keep your voice down. One other thing. Do not directly
address the jurors other than to say good morning. All right. On about
four or five occasions you have directly addressed jurors. That is not
appropriate in California.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You mean the jurors at all?

*THE COURT:* You can say good morning to them. You can't speak directly
to them.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. I'm sorry about that. I really was unaware.

*THE COURT:* What you--

*MR. NEUFELD:* So I did something neutral. I didn't try and put who the
person was. I just said "third person identity unknown," as another
class of people who cannot be excluded by this typing and obviously the
person has the 4 allele.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke.

*MR. CLARKE:* The first item is Mr. Neufeld was just asked, immediately
prior to court, did he have any new exhibits that he was going to seek
to use and he said no. That is the first objection. The second relates
to, first of all, I don't want and I think the Court should not allow
any alteration of our charts whatsoever. This represents an alteration
of that chart. It cannot be preserved, shouldn't be preserved and it
shouldn't be used on our chart. It is one point to point to items on the
chart, have testimony and so forth, but I think any alteration is
improper. And third of all, this is clearly misleading because there is
no evidence that there is a third person. All we know is two people
cannot be excluded, as are ten people couldn't be excluded, but to reach
the conclusion as this does, a third person identity unknown, is
contrary to the facts of this case.

*THE COURT:* All right. I find this to be argumentative, counsel.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, the objection about altering the board, I'm
not altering the board.

*THE COURT:* I'm not worried about that. I find that to be argumentative.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I deliberately picked "third person identity unknown"
because it is not argumentative, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* It is. It is. Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor--

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment, your Honor.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Could we see you briefly, your Honor? We would like to
make a request of you.

*THE COURT:* No. Let's proceed.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, given the observed alleles on item 29, the
mixed bloodstain on the steering wheel, there is a category here called
"not excluded." Do you see that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, your Honor. May I walk through so that I can
see this chart?

*THE COURT:* Certainly.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And the alleles observed again on sample 29 are 1.1, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* 1.2, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And finally the 4?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And if we were able to make a separate column called "not
excluded," you would agree--you would agree, Dr. Cotton, that Mr.
Simpson could not be excluded as a contributor to this mixture; is that
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So I'm going to add his name into the column of people
who cannot be excluded. And would you agree that given the alleles in
this mixture that Nicole Brown Simpson cannot be excluded?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right, I agree.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So I'm going to add her name to the column of people who
cannot be excluded. Is that consistent with your testimony?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that also given the
presence of the 4 allele, that anyone else who has a genotype for
DQ-Alpha of either 4 comma 4, 4 comma 1.1 and 4 comma 1.2 cannot be
excluded?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So may I add that collective person, if you will, as a
third category under not excluded?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That would be another group of people that wouldn't
be excluded.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is it consistent with your testimony if I simply
describe this person as someone of either type 4 comma 4 or 4 comma 1.1
or 4 comma 1.2; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So but your testimony and your observations of this
DQ-Alpha type then, it would be these three different listings under the
"not excluded" column; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's the three different listings you get if you are
assuming three contributors. You can break it down in that manner--

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm not assuming anything.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, could the witness finish her answer, please?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Please do.

*DR. COTTON:* You could--you could simply also make a list of all the
possible genotypes that could be in there and it would include the ones
you have listed there, including the one for Mr. Simpson and the one for
Nicole Brown.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In your column where you have "not excluded," you didn't
make an assumption that there was simply two donors, did you?

*DR. COTTON:* No. We didn't make any assumption at all about how many
donors there were.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right. So likewise, if we don't make any assumption as to
how many donors there are in the categories of people not excluded, then
would you agree then with the three different groupings that I have
placed on Defendant's next in order--which would be what, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* I believe it would be 1151.

*MR. NEUFELD:* 1151.

*THE COURT:* 1151.

/(Deft's 1151 for id = chart)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Is that correct, sir? Ma'am? Doctor? Excuse me. Long
weekend. I apologize.

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah. What I'm--you are correct, but what I'm trying to
get--the point I'm trying to get to is that if you don't make any
assumptions at all about how many donors there are in there, there are
genotypes that aren't on your list.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You wouldn't exclude a 1.1, 1.1? You wouldn't exclude a
1.2, 1.2? I'm sorry. 1.1 is on the list, isn't it?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right. Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Isn't that Nicole Brown Simpson?

*DR. COTTON:* You are right, I guess we have--

*THE COURT:* Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. First of all, you can't talk
at the same time. Secondly, when I say "Wait," everybody stops,
including you, Dr. Cotton, including you, Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry.

*THE COURT:* You can't argue with the witness and with the answer that
she is giving. You get to ask questions and you get to give answers,
doctor. Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* With the Court's permission, your Honor, I would just
like to be able to move the pad so the rest of the jurors can see it as
well.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in terms of eliminating other possible contributors
to this mixed stain, Dr. Cotton, are you aware that neither Dennis Fung
or Andrea Mazzola could have contributed the no. 4 allele to this mixture?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Let me ask you a hypothetical based on a good
faith basis. May I just show something to the Court?

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Your Honor, may we approach the bench, please?

*THE COURT:* Yes, with the court reporter.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*MS. CLARK:* Your Honor, may I be heard on this? This has gotten out
of hand and ridiculous.

*THE COURT:* No, you may not.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, this is outrageous in my view. Counsel is
producing pieces of paper, attempting to show them in front of the jury
as a basis for asking questions and is being demonstrative in front of
the jury--let me finish, please--to be able to establish certain points
to the jury. Now, I think that is absolutely outrageous conduct. It is
done with a particular point to make in front of the jury. It is
done--and I don't know about in New York it being proper, but it is
clearly improper in a California courtroom, and I venture to say
certainly in any courtroom, for counsel to be attempting to prove facts
in front of the jury through an improper means, knowing that objections
will be made to those acts and seeking to get across those points by the
very acts themselves.

*MS. CLARK:* Second time in twenty minutes.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* When the Court takes that into consideration, along with
what happened this morning, which was blatantly showing an item that had
never been shown to us, had never been brought up with the Court and was
knowingly objectionable, this is twice within the first short period of
time and I think counsel needs to be told by the Court this cannot
happen again.

*MR. NEUFELD:* May I be heard, your Honor?

*MR. CLARKE:* And--

*THE COURT:* Wait. What is your hypothetical question?

*MR. NEUFELD:* The hypothetical question--well, I can read it to you. I
have it right there.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* My understanding under California law is for a
hypothetical I don't have to--I'm not limited to the facts that are
actually in evidence if I have a good faith basis for asking the
question. The hypothetical will be as follows, your Honor--

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Could counsel keep his voice down.

*MR. NEUFELD:* A tow truck driver testified that the Bronco was locked
when he towed it from Mr. Simpson's home to the LAPD print shed for
safekeeping. Dennis Fung testified the Bronco was locked when he and
Andrea Mazzola arrive at the print shed to collect the bloodstains the
next morning. Assume that the LAPD ran DNA tests on some of the
employees in the SID lab. And assume further that criminalist Dennis
Fung and Mazzola were among the group tested. Would you agree as an
expert that if their DQ-Alpha types did not include the no. 4 allele
then they could not have contributed--

*MR. CLARKE:* Adjust the volume.

*MR. NEUFELD:* They could not have contributed the no. 4 allele to the
mixture? That is it and this is the good faith basis for asking that
question.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke.

*MR. CLARKE:* I think it is just outrageous to take that report and
parade it in front of the jury. I can't urge that to the Court enough,
particularly since it has happened twice today. I think it is absolutely
wrong. And I'm going to ask that the jury be admonished about this
waving, showing exhibits that are absolutely improper in court.

*THE COURT:* Do you object to the hypothetical question?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Why?

*MR. CLARKE:* Because it assumes facts not in evidence at this point.

*MS. CLARK:* Also improper foundation.

*MR. CLARKE:* And it is also misleading because there is a second report
that demonstrates, for instance, genotypes that are going to play a role
of these particular individuals. Counsel is selectively picking various
pieces of evidence to use with these witnesses, and the answer to the
question isn't helpful; it is argumentative. This witness has already
said the person has a 4 allele, whoever that it is. What good does it do
to this jury to establish that this person doesn't have a 4 allele? We
could take any of the detectives. I mean, we could go on forever and
ever. Andrea Mazzola, for instance, to my knowledge, was never in the
Bronco.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm not--I'm not going on forever. I'm simply asking
about the two other people who said they were at the Bronco collecting
this stain. And frankly, the D1S80 result is completely irrelevant
because as their witness has already testified once, you have an
exclude--the person is excluded. All I want to show is that neither of
these people could have contributed the no. 4 allele. Good faith basis.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry; volume.

*THE COURT:* All right. The objection is sustained.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, counsel. Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment, your Honor.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, the first samples that were sent to you by
the Los Angeles Police Department were sent on or about June 22nd, 1994;
is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* At least initially the person that you were expected to
contact with the results of your testing was Michele Kestler with the
LAPD; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* She was one of the contacts, yes. There were--there was
another person who could also be a contact, if I remember correctly.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me just show you a document to see if it refreshes
your recollection on this point. Let me ask you this question: Were you,
at least initially, instructed by the Los Angeles Police Department that
the results should be communicated to Michele Kestler?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I believe on September 8, 1994, your laboratory
prepared a report on DNA results, did it not?

*DR. COTTON:* We have a lot of reports. Which one--

*MR. NEUFELD:* The one dated September 8th?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I found it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You found it?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And that is a report written to Michele Kestler?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And isn't it a fact that on September 12th of 1994
Cellmark actually faxed a copy of this report to Michele Kestler at the
Los Angeles Police Department?

*DR. COTTON:* We may have. I don't have all those records down here with me.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Perhaps I can help you.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, may I see what counsel is referring to, your
Honor?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure.

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* What is next in order, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* 152. Excuse me, 1152.

/(Deft's 1152 for id = document)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I will show you a document which has been marked as
1152 which is a five-page letter--five-page report, excuse me, and ask
you if you can identify that document?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. This is a copy of the September 8th report, and
although the fax cover is not here and I can't exactly read all the
figures at the top, it seems to say "From Cellmark Diagnostics." I
don't--I can't read any fax date on the top, however.

*MR. NEUFELD:* If you look at the next page, or the page after where it
seems to be a little bit clearer, can you see a date?

*DR. COTTON:* There we go. Right, right, and the date is September 12th,
1994, at 1:45.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. So that would indicate, Dr. Cotton, thank you, that
this September 8th report was faxed to Michele Kestler at the Los
Angeles Police Department on September 12th, 1994?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, did Cellmark disclose the results in that report to
anyone, other than Michele Kestler, during the month of September?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, relevance.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Did Cellmark disclose any of the results contained in
that report of September 8th to anyone in the media?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection.

*DR. COTTON:* Absolutely not.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Are you aware, Dr. Cotton, that there were certain media
reports on September 12th concerning the results?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* It is irrelevant.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I want to ask you some questions, Dr. Cotton, about the
substrate controls in this case. All right?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in this case Andrea Mazzola testified that she
created substrate control swatches for every stain that she collected at
Bundy and Rockingham. Are you aware of that, by the way?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, relevance.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Umm, no. I've watched little bits and pieces of testimony
here and there, but I have not listened to the entirety. I didn't have
time to do that, so I'm not--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, you stated--okay, thank you. You stated on direct
examination, Dr. Cotton, that testing the substrate control swatch can
be informative if the testing of that swatch reveals the presence of
DNA; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree that if DNA is found, one explanation
could be that there were certain biological materials in the area
immediately adjacent to the bloodstain?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that would be the interpretation.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree that another explanation, Dr. Cotton,
could be that both the blood stained swatch and the substrate control
swatch were cross-contaminated at some point after the collection of the
evidence? Is that another possible interpretation?

*DR. COTTON:* If you are testing the substrate control and you found DNA
on it, then that would say that your first explanation would be correct
and the other explanation which you just said is that it could have been
contaminated later, but it doesn't say anything about whether the actual
piece of evidence was contaminated later. It only says something about
that substrate control.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I know, but as an expert in the field, Dr. Cotton, if you
saw that--if you thought that there may have been a cross-contamination
of that substrate control and the substrate control was also handled all
the way along the process of the evidentiary stains, would that cause
you to consider the possibility in your mind that the evidentiary stains
may also have been cross-contaminated?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, irrelevant. Also assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* It certainly would say--it would raise that possibility in
your mind, but it wouldn't tell you definitely one way or the other.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay.

*DR. COTTON:* It wouldn't tell you anything.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, it would tell you that you should be concerned
about that possibility; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, but being concerned about it and knowing something
aren't the same thing.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, I think you also said that you can't know for sure
whether there was cross-contamination with a sample before you ever
received it anyway; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Of course.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would you agree with the following proposition, Dr.
Cotton: When a stain of blood is analyzed with PCR it is important to
analyze the unstained materials next to the stain with PCR as a control
for contamination?

*DR. COTTON:* I think it is--I think you can--I know you can do that.
Sometimes, depending on the nature of the evidence, it may be more
important to do that than other times. We do not in our laboratory
routinely request a substrate control. If we are requested to do one, of
course we do it, but we do not routinely request one, or if we are given
a big stain, we don't routinely take one, because it is--it is not
always going to be informative, depending on the nature of the evidence.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So what you are saying is that it is your policy to defer
to the submitting agency as to whether or not the control swatches get
analyzed?

*DR. COTTON:* That is what we would generally do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, just getting back to the proposition that I asked
you about, Dr. Cotton, would you agree that it is important to analyze
the control swatch at the same time for PCR testing as you analyze the
evidentiary stain?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think it makes any difference if you do it one way
or the other.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But do you believe it is important to do it?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* I'm not sure what you are asking me. Are you asking me is
it important to at the same time that you do the DNA extraction from the
evidence swatch that you do the DNA extraction from the control swatch
at the same time?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Did you say on direct examination, Dr. Cotton, that it is
important, when you have a certain kind of control, be it a negative
control or a positive control, that the control should be run in
parallel to the actual evidentiary items?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I said you should run a reagent blank control in
parallel to the actual items.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And did you also say that you should run the
amplification control in parallel to the items?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, the negative reagent--the negative control that you
set up at the time of amplification is always run in parallel.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Did you also say that you should run the positive control
in parallel--

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* --to the other items of evidence?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you said on direct examination that another type of
control that exists is this substrate control; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So my question, Dr. Cotton, is would you agree with the
following proposition: That when the bloodstain is analyzed for PCR it
is important to analyze at the same time the unstained material which
makes up the substrate control?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't think that--I don't think it is important. I
think you can do it later and it will still give you the same
information as if you do it at the same time.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So what you are saying, and correct me if I am misstating
it, Dr. Cotton, that as long as you do it later, when you do it is not
critical?

*DR. COTTON:* That's what I'm saying.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in this case, Dr. Cotton, you received blood-stained
items, swatches from items 47, 49, 50 and 52 last summer; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is it also true that when the LAPD sent you those
items representing stains from the Bundy walkway, they failed to send
you substrate control swatches for the same items?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* When the Los Angeles Police Department sent you last
summer the blood-stained swatches for items 47, 49, 50 and 52, did they
send you the substrate control swatches for the same items?

*DR. COTTON:* No, they didn't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in October of 1994 you received the blood-stained
swatches for item no. 48, did you not?

*DR. COTTON:* You will have to let me check my sheets first.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Can you give me some kind of number that I'm looking for
here?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Umm--

*DR. COTTON:* Or specifically a date?

*MR. NEUFELD:* October 12. On or about October 12.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* If you take a look in your report dated November 11,
1994, you may see a reference.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay. Great. Thank you.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Is that correct, that on or about October 12th you
received blood-stained--two blood-stained swatches representing what was
purported to represent item 48?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, but I think that was the actual item 48. I got a lot
of stuff here, so let me go back, okay?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure.

*DR. COTTON:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, I may have created a misunderstanding and
not as been as clear as I should have been there in my question, and
perhaps I could save you some time. Isn't it true that on or about
October 12th, 1994, that you received two blood-stained swatches which
were labeled item 48 from the Los Angeles Police Department?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And in that same shipment did they send you the
control swatch, substrate control swatch for item 48?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And what record do you have of that--of receiving that
control swatch on that date?

*DR. COTTON:* We have a log-in for item no. 48 with a "C" after it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, let me ask you this question: In the report that I
just referred you to--

*DR. COTTON:* The--

*MR. NEUFELD:* --which you referred you to which referred to the October
12th date, didn't that say that you only received two swatches, both of
which were stained?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It doesn't refer to an unstained swatch being received in
that shipment, does it?

*DR. COTTON:* It doesn't, but we have a statement in our--I'm sorry, I
misspoke. I'm only finding the information about item 48 itself in this
report with the types from item 48.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Which would be the stained, the blood-stained portions,
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right. That is why I'm getting confused. I'm not
finding what you are referring to and I don't know if it is simply not
here or I'm not finding it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, there is no indication anywhere in your report that
you received the substrate control swatch for item 48 in that shipment
on October 12th; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And since you did not receive from the Los Angeles Police
Department the substrate control swatches for those five--for the stains
from the purported Bundy drops, would it be fair to say that you also
did not run control swatches when you actually did the DNA testing on
the evidence itself?

*DR. COTTON:* We didn't run any control swatches on that early set of
evidence at the time that we analyzed that group of samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton, as an expert,
that since the Los Angeles Police Department did not ship to you the
substrate control swatches for the Bundy walkway stains at the same time
as the evidentiary stains, that you have no knowledge regarding how
these control swatches were handled since their purported collection to
the present?

*DR. COTTON:* That would--that would be true, however, we did receive
some control swatches later and I would have to look at which samples
those were control swatches for. To say I had no knowledge--

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Well, let's start out with the first step.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Assuming for a moment that you did receive some control
swatches much more recently--is that what you are saying?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that is what I'm saying.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Certainly based on the fact that you didn't receive
the control swatches along with the evidentiary stains, last summer and
in October, would you agree that you have no knowledge regarding how
those control swatches were handled since their purported collection up
until the time much more recently that you received any of those control
swatches?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that--of course that would be the case.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, in this case there was also testimony
that--by Andrea Mazzola that when she testified or August 23rd, 1994,
that she had testified that she put her initials on bindles that she
processed on the morning of June 14th. My question to you, Dr. Cotton,
is do your records reflect that any of the bindles that you received
from the Los Angeles Police Department bore Mazzola's initials?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative, the first portion.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do your records have Andrea Mazzola's initials on any of
them--I'm sorry. Do your records reflect that on the bindles that you
received, whether Andrea Mazzola's initials appeared on any of those
bindles?

*DR. COTTON:* They don't reflect whether they do or don't. That is, we
wouldn't be writing that down. We would be writing down what was inside
the bindle.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Did you look at bindles yourself when they came in?

*DR. COTTON:* On the original pieces of evidence or the control swatches
later on?

*MR. NEUFELD:* The original pieces of evidence?

*DR. COTTON:* We did look at them and we--this is on the first group of
stuff that we received, yes, we did look at them.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And to the best of your recollection isn't it a fact that
Miss Mazzola's initials were not on any of those bindles?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't have any specific recollection. It is not a piece
of information that I would have been likely to remember.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, you said that you did receive some
control swatches more recently; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would that be in April, this past April of 1995?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it would.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And isn't it a fact, Dr. Cotton--I'm sorry. Would that be
the only time you received any control swatches in this case?

*DR. COTTON:* I believe those are the only swatches that we received.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton, that from the
very first time you received item 47 in this case until today as you sit
on this witness stand, that the Los Angeles Police Department never sent
to you the substrate control swatch for item 47?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that would be correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so item 47's control swatch has never been examined
or tested by your laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton, that from the time
they first sent up item 48 in this case until today as you sit on this
witness stand, the Los Angeles Police Department never sent you the
substrate control for item 48?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, apparently they did send you, on April 4th,
material labeled item 49, but it doesn't say it was the item 49 control;
isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* It didn't state on the label the word "control."

*MR. NEUFELD:* It just said "item 49," correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. So do you have independent knowledge as to
whether you received on April 4th the control for item 49 or did you
just receive a portion of item 49?

*DR. COTTON:* I have photographs in the case folder of what that item
looked like, but I don't have any on-paper writing that says anything
other than item 49.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. So you have no document or record which reflects
that you received the control for item 49 either in that batch; is that
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's what I just said.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, I call your attention to item 50, the fourth of
those stains at the Bundy location. From the date that you first
received item no. 50, the evidentiary stains, until today, as you sit
here on this witness stand, have you ever received the substrate control
swatch for item no. 50?

*DR. COTTON:* No, we haven't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Finally, for item no. 52, Dr. Cotton, on the day you
received the evidentiary portion of item 52 until today as you sit here
on this witness stand, has the Los Angeles Police Department ever sent
to you the substrate control swatch for item 52 for DNA analysis?

*DR. COTTON:* No, they haven't sent it to us.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In your laboratory, Dr. Cotton, is there a standard
procedure that every employee who removes or puts something into a
bindle puts his or her initials on the bindle?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And are you familiar with the practices in other
laboratories, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* Not particularly.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, to the extent that you have expertise
in this area, would you agree that it is a standard procedure at every
forensic science laboratory to have an individual who either removes or
puts something into a bindle to initial that bindle?

*DR. COTTON:* I can really only speak for what we do in our laboratory,
and when we take something in and out the bindle is taped and initials
are put across the tape and the adjacent paper.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, referring to another type of control, Dr. Cotton,
you mentioned something called a reagent blank; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is the reagent blank sometimes referred to as an
extraction blank also?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is that because this control starts at the beginning
of the processing of the sample at the laboratory when you first extract
the DNA from the sample?

*DR. COTTON:* That's exactly right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And am I correct in saying, Dr. Cotton, that a reagent
blank is simply a tube without any DNA in it that gets processed along
with all the other evidentiary samples?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Generally that is what it is, or it could, on rare
occasions, contain--if you had to swab a stain off of something, if we
had to do that in the lab and that hadn't previously been done for us,
we might include a piece of the swab before it was used, so it is not
always absolutely empty, but most of the time it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And generally, at least in this case, that is what you
meant by a reagent blank, one that was empty?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, if at the end of all those steps that comprise the
DNA typing procedure, Dr. Cotton, the reagent blank tests positive for
the presence of DNA, it means the control failed; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* You are putting a very black and white interpretation on
there. It means that you have some DNA that was in there at some point,
and that is not a term to say a control failed. That almost means to me
that the control didn't provide you with the information that you need,
instead of did, so--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well--

*DR. COTTON:* --I--I wouldn't choose that term myself.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right.

*DR. COTTON:* But it does mean that you have some DNA in there that you
normally would not expect to have in there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, it is not just normally, Dr. Cotton. The way you
run your experiment and the reason you have this reagent blank is--and
the way it is run in this case, for instance, is because if the test is
run correctly, there shouldn't be any DNA in the reagent blank at the
end of all those steps when you analyze it; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That is exactly right, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in fact, if you do see the presence of DNA, it means
that the experiment was not a success? Would you agree with that?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, again, it is the same thing. It is--it is
informative. It doesn't necessarily mean your results are wrong if you
equate wrong with success or correctness with success. That doesn't mean
your results are wrong. It does mean that you want to go back and
possibly redo it, possibly, you know, relook at what you did. You might
only go back--if you thought something had happened just at the very
last part, you might want to just go back and do the very last part.
That means you want to go back and look at what you've done carefully.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, if in fact you see DNA profile in the
reagent planning, which is supposed to have no DNA in it, could that
also mean that evidentiary specimens that were processed at the same
time as the reagent blanks were contaminated by some form of DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* It could mean that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In fact, isn't that one of the dangers? When you see a
DNA profile in what should be a negative control, isn't that an
indication of the possibility that contamination or cross-contamination
occur early on in the process?

*DR. COTTON:* It indicates that that could have happened, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In fact--now, the first two items of evidence that you
received in this case were items 49 and 50; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you received each of those two items, Dr.
Cotton, I believe you said you cut off ten percent for future testing
and you began your testing on the remaining ninety percent; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so the first step that you undertook when you
received those two samples in June of 1994, was to extract the DNA from
the ninety percent portion of those two samples; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And this extraction of items--of DNA from items 49 and
50, this was done before Dr. Blake and Dr. Lee even visited your
laboratory; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* After the extraction process, Dr. Cotton, you took a
small portion of the extracted DNA and you ran I think what you
described as either a test gel or a yield gel to determine approximately
how much DNA is present?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is that what you actually did with items 49 and 50?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I didn't actually do it myself, but that is what was
done with 49 and 50.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And as to both items 49 and 50, when that little mini gel
test was run, you concluded that there was too little DNA present for
RFLP testing; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* We concluded it was too degraded for RFLP testing.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Now, in some situations, Dr. Cotton, after you take
that small portion of the ninety percent and do that test, would you be
able to recycle the balance of the ninety percent to use for other forms
of testing, such as PCR testing?

*DR. COTTON:* Only--we would only do that if we had run a reagent blank
control during that DNA extraction.

*MR. NEUFELD:* If you had run a reagent blank control that we just
described during that port--excuse me--during that part of the process
of items 49 and 50, then you would be able to recycle the balance of
that ninety percent of the unused DNA; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But in this case, Dr. Cotton, your laboratory simply
didn't run a reagent blank negative control for items 49 and 50; is that
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Not at the time that we did that first extraction.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so for use 49 and 50, at least to the bulk of the
ninety percent that you received, it could not be recycled for PCR
testing, could it?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, you could do it. You simply wouldn't have a reagent
blank control to run along with it, so we did not use that initial
extracted DNA when we did our PCR test on that sample.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, the reason you didn't use the balance of that
ninety percent portion is because you could not know for sure whether or
not there was some contamination that occurred with respect to items 49
and 50 without having a reagent blank; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we couldn't know what had happened during that DNA
extraction.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so to be scientifically cautious, you didn't use that
portion of 49 and 50 which you failed to use a reagent blank on for
follow-up PCR testing; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Does your laboratory keep a centralized log indicating
the number of times that you failed to run a particular control?

*DR. COTTON:* No, we don't have any kind of log like that. There
are--there--never mind. We don't have a log like that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Dr. Cotton, do you agree with the following
proposition: If a negative control is positive in one experiment, it
indicates a potential problem, not just for that experiment but for any
experiment performed by the laboratory at about the same time?

*DR. COTTON:* I agree that that might be the case, but in other words,
it might--it might indicate that there were problems with other
experiments or it might indicate there was a problem just with the one
thing that you did, and you would have to go back and look at other
things to make that determination.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, that is all--

*DR. COTTON:* So I guess I don't agree with that statement.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You don't agree with it?

*DR. COTTON:* Not completely, no.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well the statement simply indicates a potential problem,
not a definitive problem?

*DR. COTTON:* Okay. I will go for potential problem.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you agree with that?

*THE COURT:* Wait, wait, wait.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sorry.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me repeat the proposition one more time, Dr. Cotton.

*MR. NEUFELD:* If a blank control is positive in one experiment, it
indicates a potential problem, not just for that experiment, but for any
experiment performed at about the same time? Would you agree with that
proposition.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* I would agree with that statement as you read it, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And Dr. Cotton, are you familiar with that portion
of the National Academy of Science report, /"DNA Technology in Forensic
Science,"/ which addresses the issue regarding the consequences of a
control failure in PCR testing?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well--

*MR. CLARKE:* Also move to strike counsel's comments.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Ask Dr. Cotton if she is familiar with that part
of the report.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Are you familiar with the portion of the NRC report
entitled /"DNA Technology in Forensic Science"/ which addresses that
same issue, the consequences of a control failure?

*DR. COTTON:* Can you just tell me what the title of that section is?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Page 67 of the NRC report, if you would like to take a
look at it. It begins on 65 and runs through 67.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* In particular, Dr. Cotton, could you take a look at one
portion of that, just to save time.

*DR. COTTON:* /(Witness complies.)/ The statement that you just pointed
out to me is the one that you just read to me.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And in fact in your own copy of that book do you
have that same statement underlined?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. I have many things highlighted in this book.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is that statement that I just read to you in fact one
of the those statements?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is that a portion of the NRC report that you in fact
relied upon in coming to an expert opinion as to the consequences of the
control failure in PCR testing?

*DR. COTTON:* I have read this portion of the book. I'm having a little
trouble with this concept of "relied upon." I have read this portion of
the book. I agree with some of it and I don't agree with other parts. I
happen to agree with that statement, but if you ask me did I agree with
and rely upon that whole section, I would have to say no.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But--

*THE COURT:* All right. She has indicated she agreed with the portion
that you read.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right.

*THE COURT:* All right. Next question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you read that paragraph, did you also read the
very next sentence?

*DR. COTTON:* Umm, not just this--not when I was looking at it just now.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Please do.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, objection. Relevance.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Back on 67, right?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.) I don't really agree with this next
statement, but our laboratory hasn't been in that position, so I don't
know--I don't really have a strong opinion one way or the other./

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, would this be--portion of the NRC
report, namely this next sentence, that you relied upon in reaching your
own opinions as to what actions to take when there was a failure of a
control in PCR testing?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* With the Court's permission may I read the entire
sentence that she said she agreed with?

*THE COURT:* We have been through this already.

*MR. NEUFELD:* As I stated as a proposition, a portion of the sentence.
She has now read the entire sentence and said that she agrees with it.

*THE COURT:* Ask her the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, do you agree with the opinion of the
scientist who authored the DNA technology and forensic science book or
the National Academy of Science in which they say, quote--

*MR. CLARKE:* Excuse me, objection, hearsay as framed.

*THE COURT:* Sustained, as framed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well--may we have a side bar, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* No. Very simple hearsay issue, counsel. Proceed.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, a moment ago when you said you agreed with
and relied on that sentence, were you referring to this sentence, and I
quote--

*MR. CLARKE:* Excuse me. Objection, misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* May I be heard on this issue, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Very simple hearsay issue, counsel. Move on.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I would simply ask to make a record on the--on that
issue, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* No. Move on. The objection is sustained. You can make any
argument at the break. We will break at 10:30.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In your laboratory, Dr. Cotton, whenever there has been
an instant--I'm sorry. One moment.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* In your laboratory, Dr. Cotton, has there ever been an
instance when in a similar period of time several different technicians
saw DNA results on the negative controls where nothing should be visualized?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we had that occur one time.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And whenever there has been an instance when more than
one technician or scientist observes a failure in the negative controls,
do you document that phenomena in any laboratory-wide log?

*DR. COTTON:* The instance is documented in terms of a report that goes
to the quality control assurance manager and what was done to correct it
also goes to her.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So that there will be--

*DR. COTTON:* In terms of a brief statement of this is what happened,
this is what we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So even at Cellmark there have been occasions where the
negative controls failed?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, and I want to--

*MR. CLARKE:* Excuse me--

*DR. COTTON:* I want to be very clear about what I'm saying. We had one
instance in which the negative control that is set up at the time of
amplification was giving us a signal and we had to go back and figure
out that that negative control just--turned out that it by itself was
contaminated, but it could have been some other result. And anyway, we
had to stop doing what we were doing, go back and figure that out and
then restart testing.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton, that for each
and every time where you've had the negative control failure, you
haven't been able to determine, by your investigation, exactly how the
contamination occurred in every instance when it did occur?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, there have been more than one occasion where a
negative control has failed; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* No. What I--what I'm trying to tell you is there was one
instance where we saw that, and I'm calling it one instance because it
was confined to a period of one or two days. And so--so it wasn't just
one test. Let me be clear. It wasn't just one test. There were several
tests done over that period of two days, but it was this period of a
couple of days that we had this problem, and that is the only period of
time that we have had that particular problem.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So with respect to having that particular problem where
the negative control failed over a period of one or two days in multiple
tests, were you able to determine the precise cause for that failure?

*DR. COTTON:* We were able to--the--the answer is really no, we didn't
know the precise cause.

*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, in your laboratory when that phenomena
occurred over a period of one or to days in multiple tests seeing DNA in
the negative controls where it shouldn't be, would you refer to that
phenomena as an outbreak of contamination?

*DR. COTTON:* I didn't refer to it like that, no.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you say that that is a fair characterization of it?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Have you ever heard that term before?

*DR. COTTON:* I've heard it in court before. I have not heard it in
scientific discussions.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* You just said a moment ago that you only heard it in
court proceedings and not in scientific papers; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* I said discussions. That is discussions I've had or--I can
only talk about what--discussions I've had, discussions I've had with
people in other laboratories or in my own laboratory. If we have one
instance of contamination, we don't generally refer to it as an
outbreak. It sounds like we are getting the measles or something and it
is just not a term that I have heard used in discussing this potential
problem with other scientists.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, you said that you read the NRC report many
times; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you read the NRC report did you see them
describe it as an outbreak of contamination?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, irrelevant, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, they may well have. I don't know--I mean, if you
look at all the stuff that I have to read, I cannot remember word for
word what is in the NRC report, what is in our standard operating
procedure and so forth, so if it is in there, fine, but--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton--

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, could the witness finish her answer?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sorry.

*DR. COTTON:* But it doesn't change the fact that when we discuss it in
our lab and when I discuss it with other people that is not the
terminology they used or I have heard anyone else use in the setting as
I characterized it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, please go back and look at the very same page
we just looked at a moment ago, page 67, and the very next paragraph.

*MR. CLARKE:* Sorry, objection, hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.) Yes./

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Isn't it a fact that the NRC report states--

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It is for a different purpose, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Ask the question appropriately.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Isn't it a fact, Dr. Cotton, that the NRC report
describes this phenomena?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Dr. Cotton, you have reviewed that paragraph?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, sir. Yes, I have.

*THE COURT:* All right. Does that refresh your recollection as to that
terminology?

*DR. COTTON:* They use the term "outbreaks of contamination" in this
paragraph.

*THE COURT:* Fine. Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you agree, Dr. Cotton, that it is important to
discover the source of an outbreak of contamination so that the
laboratory can be cleansed of it?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't agree that you must determine the source.
Sometimes that is simply not possible.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Neufeld, the court reporter tells me she is
about to run out of paper, so we will take our break at this point. Do
you have one or two more wind-up--

*MR. NEUFELD:* No, I don't. We can take our break right now.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take a
recess for the morning session. Please remember all of my admonitions to
you. Do not discuss the case among yourselves, form any opinions about
the case, don't conduct any deliberations until the matter has been
submitted to you, don't allow anyone to communicate with you with regard
to the case. And we will take a 15-minute recess.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record. All parties are again
present. Let's have the jurors, please, Deputy Magnera.

*DEPUTY MAGNERA:* Yes, your Honor.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Dr.
Cotton, would you resume the witness stand, please. Good morning again,
Dr. Cotton.

*DR. COTTON:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. Good morning.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, when you referred to the phenomenon in your
laboratory where there was multiple instances of negative control
failure occurring, when did that happen? Do you know the date?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't know the date without--it was sometime in the
last two years, but I don't know the exact date.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can you be more specific even as to the month?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you know how many cases were included in those control
failures?

*DR. COTTON:* I think it was about somewhere like four or six, something
like that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And for each of those four or six cases, how many samples
were there tested where the negative controls failed?

*DR. COTTON:* I have--I have absolutely no idea. It wouldn't
been--wouldn't have been necessarily all the samples in that case. It
could have been like one sample that was done at that time. But how
many, I don't have any idea.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Is there a centralized log which one could access to see
how many samples had the negative controls fail in that period?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that it is important to find
out the source of the contamination causing the negative controls to
fail so that you can correct the cause and thus reduce the likelihood of
reoccurrence?

*DR. COTTON:* It's nice if you can find out the source, but many times,
that's not possible. So I would not agree that it was essential or
necessary.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, in this case, Dr. Cotton, isn't it true that a
reagent blank that was supposed to be blank displayed DNA dots?

*THE COURT:* Do you want to rephrase that, "this case"? When you say
"this case," are we talking about the--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Oh, I'm sorry.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In this case, right here in this courtroom involving Mr.
Simpson, isn't it true that a reagent blank that was supposed to be
blank displayed DNA dots?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, there was one.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I believe you said on direct examination that there
can be two possible explanations for that occurrence. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I believe you said that one possible explanation is
that there was a minute contamination during the original extraction
which was magnified when it was concentrated along with item 7. do you
recall saying something like that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do. That's--that's a good restatement of what I
said or what I meant anyway.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, is it also possible that a second explanation would
be that during the concentration procedure itself, the contamination
occurred?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So those would be the two possible explanations that you
came up with?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that if one doesn't
know which explanation is correct, that to be cautious, it is incumbent
on the laboratory to assume that the contamination occurred during the
initial extraction?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I mean--there's two possibilities. There's no way to
distinguish between them. So I think it would be inappropriate to assume
one or the other.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Well, if there's no way that you can prove which
one it is, then certainly the explanation that the contamination that
led to the reagent blank failure occurred furthest back in time as a
possible theory; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, certainly that's possible, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Now, the other--there were other samples that
were extracted during that extraction when you set up the reagent blank;
isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree that the other items in this case
that were extracted at the same time as the commencement of the reagent
blank were items 78, 56, 52, 47 and 12?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, I'd rather go into my notebooks.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Please do.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Okay. I have the beginning of the notes on that set of
samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And is item 78 included in that list?

*DR. COTTON:* The reason I'm having trouble is that our numbers are
different than the item 78 number. So what's in the information that I'm
looking at are just our own numbers and it doesn't say item 78. So we
have to--let me just find the piece of paper and take it out that allows
me to easily go back and forth between the two sets.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Please do.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Okay. Yes. Item 78 was in that group.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is item 56 in that group?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Is item 52 in that group?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And item 52 is the one where you did RFLP analysis, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is item 47 in that group?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is item 12 in that group?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And are there any other items in that group that I left out?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, you'll have to give me a minute, and I'll let you know.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* No. That's it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And, Dr. Cotton, given the presence of DNA on the
reagent blank negative control happening when you ran that batch of
items that you just enumerated, shouldn't you have gone back and
repeated the extraction procedure for those five items in the case?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Doesn't your protocol, Dr. Cotton, say that if the
reagent blank fails, then all the samples must be reextracted?

*DR. COTTON:* The reagent blank for the other samples apart from our
samples 06, which is item 7, when that reagent blank was originally
typed, it typed with no DNA signal visible at all. Therefore, the sets
of--the samples apart from sample 7 that did not get put through the
microcon could not have been effec--even if we assume--if we just say
for the sake of assumption that there was some minor level of
contamination that got concentrated later by the microcon, it was not at
a sufficiently high level to produce any product whatsoever, and,
therefore, it couldn't have affected the types that we came up with on
the set of samples apart from the one that went through the microcon.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, isn't it true that a contaminant does
not necessarily have to contaminate all samples in the same quantity?

*DR. COTTON:* Given that all these things are in solution and based on
the solutions are--would be normally considered to be even distributions
of molecules, I don't really think that that's an important consideration.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But isn't that true, Dr. Cotton, only if you can assume
what the cause of the contamination of the reagent blank is?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I just--I think that since the reagent blank
contamination clearly didn't show up in that first set of samples, that
it does not present any problem to that first set of samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But, Dr. Cotton, doesn't your protocol explicitly state
that if the reagent blank fails, then the entire experiment for the
samples that are run with it should be deemed inconclusive? Isn't that
in your protocol?

*DR. COTTON:* I'd have to look at the protocol to see what it
specifically states, but in the protocol, we don't usually use the word
"experiment." So would be better to go back and look at what it
specifically states. I believe that it states that if possible, the
sample should be run again.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And does it also state to your recollection that
the--that the data should be deemed inconclusive?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it states that, but I can't tell you right off the
top of my head if it states that as an absolute or it should be--or that
that's a possibility that should be considered.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me just show you the following document, see if it
refreshes your recollection on this particular point.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorney
and Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. Doesn't your protocol say that the--that
when this happens, the test will be considered inconclusive? When I say
"this," I mean when the reagent blank fails.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It doesn't say it could possibly be considered
inconclusive, does it? Doesn't qualify it that way?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, there is a sentence later on that refers to the
Ph.D.s using their discretion when--and I can't restate the sentence
exactly. Maybe you can find it there. But there is some discretion there
on the part of the Ph.D. And this sample was--this sample before--it was
amplified before it went through the microcon, and that amplification
was also later on typed. So the sample wasn't exactly done in duplicate,
but the results were obtained twice.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, in fact, two people reviewed this same
reagent blank and both people concluded that there were DNA dots
present, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* There are two.

*MR. NEUFELD:* There was no descending opinion on that, was there?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. And in fact, I believe you said a moment ago
that you should try to do reextractions of the samples, but I believe
it's your position it's not essential; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, in this case, I don't know that--again, I would have
to go back into the notes. I can't tell you whether or not we had enough
sample available to do a reextraction.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, to the best of your knowledge, did you make any
effort at attempting to reextract those samples?

*DR. COTTON:* In order to answer your--well, I know that we didn't, but
what I can't tell you without going back into the record is whether or
not there was anything that was available to us to go back and reextract.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you please take a look at your notes to see whether
or not any effort was made by Cellmark to do a reextraction on those
samples that were typed at the same time that the reagent blank tested
positive?

*DR. COTTON:* I'm sorry. I guess I didn't understand when you asked me
the first time. I thought you were referring to just sample item no. 7.

*MR. NEUFELD:* No. I'm asking you whether or not efforts were made to do
a new extraction from item 78, 52, 56, 47 and 12 after you got a
negative control failure on the reagent blank.

*DR. COTTON:* We didn't get a reagent blank control failure for those
items because the reagent blank typed with those items prior to putting
it through a microcon was not positive and those items were not repeated.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, didn't you say a few minutes ago that one
possible explanation for the DNA dots appearing on the reagent blank
could be that when the initial extraction occurred before you even
reprocessed it, that when the initial extraction occurred, that's when
the contamination occurred? Didn't you say that, doctor?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I did. But the reagent blank dots don't show up. If
they don't show up with a set of samples, they can't have influenced
anything. If you can't see anything, it can't have affected the types.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, you would agree that somehow, there was
a contaminant that got into that reagent blank that created some DNA to
be present; isn't that right?

*MR. GOLDBERG:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Somehow, a contaminant got in there to cause the reagent
place to be positive at the point for item 7 after the microcon
concentration had be--had happened.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you did the--when you created the reagent blank,
you created it at the same time, that is, you extracted those other
samples I just described; namely 78, 52, 56, 47 and 12; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* It was started at the same time, yes. But the--the end
result, the reagent blank that gave the end result with two faint dots
on it was not--had gone through an additional procedure that item--the
other items handled apart from item 7 did not go through.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But finally, Dr. Cotton, didn't you say that you can't
rule out the possibility that the contamination of the reagent blank
occurred prior to that additional step, that it occurred during the
initial extraction?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right. But I can rule out the possibility that it
affected the types.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you even know to this day what actually happened to
precipitate that reagent blank from lighting up with DNA dots?

*DR. COTTON:* No. It would be impossible to determine that at the time
you did the work or at this point.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, I ask you to turn your attention to item no. 78, the
stain removed from the bottom of the boot on Mr. Goldman.

*DR. COTTON:* And do you want me to look at PCR information or RFLP?

*MR. NEUFELD:* I believe you have a report on December 5th that refers
to both, but I may be mistaken. Let me ask you this. By December 5th,
you had completed both the RFLP testing and the PCR testing; isn't that
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's my recollection, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I believe it was your testimony on direct
examination, Dr. Cotton, that the banding patterns that you observed in
item 78 could be consistent with a banding pattern of Nicole Brown
Simpson; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But I believe you also said that with respect to the
other band seen, it was simply inconclusive as to whether or not Mr.
Goldman is included or excluded; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's exactly right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, let's turn to the fingernail scrapings. You did not
actually receive fingernail scrapings from the Los Angeles Police
Department, did you?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you did not receive fingernail cuttings from the Los
Angeles Police Department, did you?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* What you received were solutions if you will from the
Department of Justice DNA laboratory in Berkeley; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you do not know what portion of the scrapings were
utilized to do the DNA typing, do you?

*DR. COTTON:* To do the DNA typing in our laboratory or--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes. You don't know from where in the fingernail
scrapings the sample was taken for you to do DNA typing in your
laboratory; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, yes. That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you do not know from where on the fingernail cuttings
the samples were removed for you to do DNA typing in your laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it be fair to say that you do not know whether
the samples or the portions of the samples that Greg Matheson utilized
for EAP typing at the LAPD laboratory could have been different portions
of those samples?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right. I don't know that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you also agree that--

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* One second. Your Honor, with the Court's permission, I
would like to show the witness this slide which is already in evidence,
1143-E--d.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can you see that slide, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* May I step down and view it from down there?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure. Take your time.

*DR. COTTON:* Does it matter?

*THE COURT:* No. Whatever you feel most comfortable with, doctor. Mr.
Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Are you aware, Dr. Cotton, that in this particular case,
an EAP test was done by Gregory Matheson which provided a result that
was different than the EAP profile for Nicole Brown Simpson?

*DR. COTTON:* I'm aware that he did a test and I'm aware there was some
difference.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that when you are
doing an EAP test, you are looking at what is known as a red blood cell
protein?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that red blood cells do
not have DNA in them?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And just to go back for a second, Dr. Cotton, to clarify
it for me, in blood cells, there are two--I'm sorry. In blood, there are
two types of cells, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, there's really many kinds of cells--

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right.

*DR. COTTON:* --if you want to get real fine differentiations. But if
you want to classify them as red cells and white cells for our purposes,
that's going to work fine.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And, Dr. Cotton, it's only the white cells that
have the DNA; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And the red cells for which you do EAP test on do not
have DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. You can have your seat again, please.

/(The witness complies.)/

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I believe one of the statements you made on direct
examination, Dr. Cotton, was, the more genetic markers you look at, the
more information you have. Is that a fair statement?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that that would apply to
conventional serological markers as well as to DNA genetic markers?

*DR. COTTON:* I would think so.

*MR. NEUFELD:* For instance, Dr. Cotton, would you agree that you could
include somebody with a PCR DQ-Alpha type and then, for instance, do an
ABO test which excludes a person?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, you could do that. I don't know enough about ABO
testing to know the intricacies of what exact kinds of results you get.
But could you exclude--could that phenomenon happen? Certainly.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And--well, and when you're looking at an ABO test, you're
not looking at that person's ABO typing on a DNA level; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that likewise, the
fingernail scrapings could appear to be consistent with Nicole Brown
Simpson for certain DNA markers, but she could be excluded based on a
red cell protein marker, that that's possible?

*DR. COTTON:* It's possible, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me ask you one other question about these fingernail
scrapings, Dr. Cotton. You had said on direct examination that sometimes
the scientists in your laboratory are asked to examine a lane from the
electrophoretic plate without being influenced by the bands they see on
the lane to the left or the bands they see on the lane to the right. Do
you recall saying that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you mentioned that--I believe you said well, one of
the things you want to avoid sometimes is the term called "examiner bias"?

*DR. COTTON:* I didn't say that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Have you ever heard the expression "examiner bias"?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And not just in forensic context, but have you heard that
term used in conjunction with people who are asked to score autorads?

*DR. COTTON:* Again, it's something that I've been asked about sometimes
in court. It's not something we normally are discussing in the lab.
But--I don't have anything more to say about it than that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Well, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that one way to
avoid examiner bias on a particular lane that you're asked to score is
to do what you said earlier on direct examination; namely, cover up the
information on the adjacent lanes and just look at the lane under question?

*DR. COTTON:* From what we do in the lab with autoradiographs, we do
that sometimes because sometimes it's helpful in determining whether a
band is sufficiently dark to score it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Now, I want to show you an item which is People's
224-B in evidence which Mr. Matheson was asked to score using that same
method; namely, where you cover up the adjacent lanes and interpret it.
And I'm going to ask you to take a look at that same lane, Dr. Cotton.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. At some point, could I see the exhibit?

*THE COURT:* Mr. Neufeld, can I offer you some post-it's?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me use post-it's.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Now--

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection as to foundation, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you ask a few foundational questions. Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, have there been times when you have been
asked to look at electrophoretic plates or photographs of
electrophoretic plates to determine when a certain band may be
controversial as to its existence or nonexistence, to make a call on
that by covering up the adjacent lanes?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Vague as to electrophoretic and also beyond the
scope.

*THE COURT:* Which tests are we talking about here?

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm going to show her--it's the EAP, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained on scope.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Separate and apart, Dr. Cotton, for a particular type
of test, would you agree, however, that it is a recognized procedure
when you have a difficult to interpret lane to cover up the adjacent
lanes and score it blindly?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, again, I can only speak for what we do in our lab,
and what we do in our lab only pertains to DNA testing. So in our lab,
that's a procedure that we use. I don't--I can't really speak to
anything else.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, but Dr. Cotton, even in the field of medical
research on DNA testing, isn't that a procedure that is also sometime
used in that application?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, again, I can only tell you what I've done. Umm, I
didn't do that when I was running RFLP gels when I was doing research. I
just didn't. We do it in our lab for the--the purpose that I described
of trying to determine whether we can all see a particular band, and
that's the extent of my use of that procedure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it be fair to say that you at least would
regard it as an appropriate procedure for the use in your laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, I would like to ask you some questions about
proficiency testing, okay? You had referred on direct examination to the
fact that Cellmark undergoes proficiency testing; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you referred to different types of proficiency
testing that Cellmark has undergone; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And isn't it true, Dr. Cotton, that the Cellmark
laboratory makes available a summary of your laboratory's error rate as
measured by proficiency testing?

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* We make available a summary of the lists of the number of
tests, the number of samples that were involved. And if you were to
calculate error rate using a specific formula, that all--that
calculation is also on that summary sheet.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm not asking you about what the error rate is or--

*DR. COTTON:* No. I understand.

*MR. NEUFELD:* --specific numbers at this time, Dr. Cotton. All I'm
saying is, don't you in fact on that summary that you send out actually
refer to it as an error rate?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that one of the
purposes of proficiency testing is to provide a measure of error rate
just as you did in the summary that you handed out?

*DR. COTTON:* You can do that with the results. In my mind, that's not
the main purpose, but it's certainly a calculation that one can do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm not asking you whether it's the main purpose, Dr.
Cotton. I'm asking if that's one of the purposes.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that there are different
types of proficiency testing?

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, yes. I agree.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I believe next in order is 1153, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Defense 1153.

/(Deft's 1153 for id = drawing)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, would you agree that one type of
proficiency test is known as open proficiency test?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm going to call this chart /"Proficiency Test" /if
that's all right with you because we're going to be describing
proficiency tests. Is that okay?

*DR. COTTON:* It's okay with me.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Now, one type you said is open proficiency test; is
that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And another type of proficiency test is called a blind
proficiency test; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And the difference between an open test and a blind test,
Dr. Cotton, is that in a blind test, the laboratory is unaware that it's
being tested; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in an open test, you're aware that it's a test as
opposed to actual casework?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And furthermore, Dr. Cotton, there's another way to break
down proficiency tests, isn't there? Well, let me ask you this way.
Other than simply dividing those tests which are open from those tests
which are blind, can you also separate those tests which are internal
from those tests which are external?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in an internal proficiency test, the proficiency test
is actually created by the laboratory itself that's going to be tested?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And on an external proficiency test, some outside agency
is going to create this proficiency test and give it to the laboratory
such as Cellmark to be tested?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so you would agree that there are basically four
types of proficiency tests based on what we've just discussed. Is that a
fair statement?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And one type then would be called an open external test;
is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Maybe I should come down and watch you draw.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. All right. And a second type of proficiency test
will be called an open internal test, namely, a test where the
laboratory knows it's being tested and the test was made inside the
laboratory; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And based on what you just testified to as to the four
different categories of proficiency testing, a third category would be
called a blind external test, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And a fourth category would be a blind internal test; is
that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Check out proficiency.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It's been brought to my attention by my colleagues that
this New York lawyer also has a spelling problem and there should be an
"I" in here; is that correct, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah. I have a spelling problem too though.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It's an east coast phenomenon, your Honor.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you, Dr. Cotton. So would you agree that these are
the four categories of proficiency tests?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah. You can break them down and that's a way to do that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Great?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Could you just help me--why don't you--so the other
jurors can see it.

/(The exhibit was displayed to the jury.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Neufeld. Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yeah. I would like to put it over on the side if I may,
your Honor, because I'm going to be referring to it during the next
portion of the questioning.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Now, Dr. Cotton, when you prepare tests
yourself--when I say "you," I don't mean you personally, Dr. Cotton. I
mean Cellmark, the Cellmark laboratory--you of course are familiar with
the strengths and weaknesses of your own laboratory, aren't you?

*DR. COTTON:* I hope so.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, but when an external agency prepares a test, they're
preparing a test that's going to go out to a number of different
laboratories generally; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And the external agency is not simply thinking to itself,
well, what are Cellmark's strengths and weaknesses. There's not how it
works, is it?

*DR. COTTON:* I hope not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that a proficiency
test that mirrors actual casework would be a good basis for measuring
laboratory error rate as opposed to a proficiency test that doesn't
replicate actual casework?

*DR. COTTON:* What do you mean by replicating actual casework?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, for instance, if you were interested in how well
the laboratory analyzed forensic samples, you wouldn't rely on a
proficiency test where you received simply, you know, a statement saying
that, "We're giving you four pristine pieces of white cloth which we
simply dabbed a single blood drop on and we want you to type that."
Would you agree with that?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Unintelligible.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Umm, well, that's pretty much like a forensic case sample.
You have standards that are on a cloth that way. So--if you're talking
about, are they about the same number of samples and the same types of
samples, then the proficiency tests seem to be sort of the--about the
same numbers you would see--receive in an average case and about the
same types--I think they try to make the same types of samples that you
would receive in a case. But clearly they're making the samples. They're
not like picking them up from an actual crime scene.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, for instance, Dr. Cotton, in this case, there are
several samples which are purported to be mixed stains or stains from
more than one source; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that's something that is not uncommon in casework, right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so if you wanted to have a proficiency test where you
tried to replicate actual casework conditions, it would be a good thing
to have some--some mixed stains thrown in, wouldn't it?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in this case, for instance, Dr. Cotton, there is
samples which are purportedly scraped up off the sidewalk. Are you aware
of that?

*DR. COTTON:* Scraped up off the sidewalk?

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry. Swatched up off the sidewalk.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I'm aware of that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And then there are samples that are swatched up off of a
driveway?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that samples that are
collected from those types of locations are frequently affected by
various environmental insults?

*DR. COTTON:* Of course.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So factors such as heat, sunlight, moisture or the
substrate condition itself can affect the quality of the testing; isn't
that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so if you wanted to have a proficiency test that
replicated casework, you would like to supply the laboratory that's
being tested with some samples that also have been subjected to various
environmental insults, wouldn't you?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, you might like to, but I think for the numbers of
samples that the proficiency test folks prepare, that's probably not
very practical.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But if you wanted to replicate the kinds of environmental
conditions you see in actual casework, that is something that would be
desirable; would it not?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think it's necessary. I--I'm not even sure that
it's desirable because it would be--what they would be trying to do then
would be make say a hundred sample sets, all of which were identical
because they want to send every lab an identical sample set, and they
would be doing it in a way that would lead to those things not being
identical. And part of the goal of the proficiency test is to be able to
compare one laboratory to the next. So it's really critical in the
design of the test that all labs get equivalent samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, although it may be difficult, Dr. Cotton, would you
agree that an outside laboratory, somebody creating a proficiency test,
could consistently subject the samples that are going to be submitted to
some types of environmental insults? Not necessarily all, but some types.

*DR. COTTON:* It may be possible for them to do that, but my
understanding of how the proficiency tests are put together is that--a,
that's not the case, and, b, in all the guidelines for proficiency tests
to be made, that--I--and I don't think that requirement to make them
that much like case samples is in the guidelines.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, do you believe that it's possible, for
instance, that when you're creating a proficiency test that's going to
go out to many laboratories, that you could take those blood swatches on
cotton, for instance, and put them in a room which has a uniformed
temperature so they're all subjected to heat? Could that be done?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I think you said during your direct testimony that
heat is one of the environmental insults which can actually cause the
DNA to degrade.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. I mean, given you're taking them into a room, you
could subject them to however high you can crank a thermostat up I
guess. But you could make them all uniform with a particular temperature
in a room.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you could also make them uniform with respect to a
certain humidity in that room as well if you could control the amount of
humidity in the room, couldn't you?

*DR. COTTON:* I suppose you could design a room to do that, but it--I
don't know. Our air conditioning doesn't control the humidity too well.
So I think you'd have to have a special design--you'd have to have a
special piece of equipment to do that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton--

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry.

*MR. CLARKE:* Can the witness finish her answer?

*THE COURT:* Yes, please.

*DR. COTTON:* You'd have to have a special piece of equipment, that is
sort of like a cold room. A cold room is just like a huge refrigerator.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, is there a certain kind of light that
can also affect the degradation of DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* What kind of light is that?

*DR. COTTON:* Ultraviolet light.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And could you also then subject the various control
specimens that you're going to send out for DNA testing to ultraviolet
light at the same time? That's something that could be done, couldn't it?

*DR. COTTON:* You could, but I think, again, you'd have to have a
special--you'd have to design a special piece of equipment or special
room in which to do that kind of thing.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that--well--I'm sorry.
When you receive casework samples, you do not know the answer in
advance, do you?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* The casework samples that come to Cellmark come from some
kind of an external agency such as the Los Angeles Police Department;
isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you agree that external proficiency tests where you
don't know you're being tested on samples are the most realistic kind of
proficiency tests to measure laboratory error rate?

*DR. COTTON:* I think both tests are equally well to do that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, I'm asking you about which is more realistic. You
agreed a moment ago, Dr. Cotton, that it's certainly more realistic when
a laboratory doesn't know it's being tested than when it knows it's
being tested. Would you agree with that?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* It's--it's much more--I mean, on a case, you don't know
that you--wait. You don't know the answer. If you receive a proficiency
test that looks like a case, then of course, that's a lot more like a
case than a proficiency test that you know it's a test.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And similarly, Dr. Cotton, in an actual case, you
said a moment ago the samples don't come from within Cellmark, they come
from an external agency; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So likewise, Dr. Cotton, in a proficiency test where the
samples are coming from an external agency, that too would be a more
realistic kind of proficiency test to measure laboratory error rate than
one in which the samples come from within the laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* It is a more realistic type of test when compared to a
regular case. But I don't think that it's any better or any worse for
looking at laboratory errors than an open proficiency test.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, are you familiar with that portion of the
National Academy of Science report, /"DNA Technology in Forensic
Science"/ entitled /"Laboratory Error Rates"?/

*DR. COTTON:* I've certainly read it. I haven't read it recently.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you please take a look at pages 88 and 89?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Hearsay at this point.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. She can look at it.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*THE COURT:* And while she's doing that, let me see counsel without
the reporter, please.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Have you finished?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah, I am.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Dr. Cotton, you've given an opinion about usability
of different types of--usefulness--excuse me--of different types of
proficiency tests. Have you considered, in reaching your own opinions on
this subject, the National Academy of Science recommendations with
respect to measuring laboratory error rate through proficiency testing?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I haven't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You've never considered that at all?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't agree with their recommendations.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, I'm not asking you whether you agree with the
National Academy of Science's recommendations, Dr. Cotton. What I'm
asking you is whether or not these recommendations have been considered
by you seriously before you arrived at your own opinions.

*DR. COTTON:* I read them, I thought about them and I have a different
opinion than they do about the--whether or not what they're asking for
is realistic and possible.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In reaching your own opinions on the subject of the
utility of external blind proficiency testing, have you thus at least
relied in part on what's contained in the NRC report, albeit you have
disagreed or rejected, if you will, their recommendations?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Unintelligible.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, because I don't agree with it, I would say I haven't
relied on it. I haven't used this in directing our laboratory to do the
types of proficiency testing that we do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, let me try and understand what you're saying, Dr.
Cotton. Are you saying that it's your position that you only rely on
those portions of the NRC report that you agree with?

*DR. COTTON:* What I'm say--I don't know how to say it more clearly.
There are portions of this report that I agree with. There are a
substantial number of portions of the report that I do not agree with,
that I think either are not well considered or are simply wrong.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So is it fair for me to say, Dr. Cotton, that you have
only relied on those portions of the NRC report in arriving at your own
opinions that you personally agree with?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. CLARKE:* Actually misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* At the point that this report came out, I already had a
substantial amount of experience at Cellmark and I had a much larger
amount of experience working with DNA in general. I do not need this
report to make my opinions.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry, Dr. Cotton, but again, my question is, is it
your position that you've only relied then for your own opinions on
those portions of the NRC report that you agree with?

*DR. COTTON:* It's--what I'm saying is, I haven't relied on the report.
If it happens that I agree with some things and disagree with some
things, those things did not necessarily or have not necessarily played
a role in my opinions about DNA typing and how it should be conducted.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Is it your professional and personal approach to the NRC
report that if you don't agree with some of their recommendations, that
you will not even take them into consideration in reaching your own
conclusions?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Let's move on.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, do you think, Dr. Cotton, that it is appropriate
for scientists to give consideration to the opinions of other scientists
with whom you disagree?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* What do you mean, give consid--you can certainly think
about them. I mean, the whole point, if somebody says, "I don't agree
with you," is to think about it and formulate what your opinion is and
see if it's the same or different and think about what somebody said.
But if you have thought about it and you don't agree with it, then
that's the situation.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And as to these various portions of the NRC report that
you--that you disagree with, have you given serious thought to what the
authors' recommendations are and why they've articulated them?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* We've asked this question now three times.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, are you familiar with any of the scien--any
scientific literature concerning the use of external blind proficiency
tests on laboratories doing PCR testing in clinical medicine?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* No, I'm not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, in your opinion, as an expert, Dr. Cotton, do you
believe it would be important for someone in your laboratory to keep
track of the rate of false positives for PCR testing in clinical medicine?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't--I don't actually have a really good answer for
that. I'm not familiar with procedures in clinical medicine. We are
familiar with procedures in forensic science. They very well may be
different. Whether or not our quality assurance manager is familiar with
clinical procedures, I can't tell you. I just don't know.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And some people, Dr. Cotton, say that a DNA test can only
give you the right result or no result.

*MR. CLARKE:* Oh, excuse me. Objection. Hearsay, assumes facts not in
evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Have you ever heard that expression, Dr. Cotton, that a
DNA test can only give you the right result or the wrong result?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Vague.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry. Can either give you the right result or no
result. Have you ever heard that expression?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't know.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well--

*DR. COTTON:* I mean, I'm hearing it now. I hear you saying it. Whether
or not I've ever heard it before, I don't remember.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, now that you've heard it, Dr. Cotton, would you
agree that that's not a correct statement?

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Would a DNA test either give you the right result or no
result?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right.

*DR. COTTON:* That's much too black and white of a statement.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And one of the reasons that it's much too black and white
a statement, Dr. Cotton, is, I believe as you've already testified, a
DNA test could give you a false positive?

*DR. COTTON:* It's possible that it could. It could also give you an
inconclusive, could also give you a false negative. There's a lot of in
between there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And if the DNA test gives you a false positive, it means
that you are getting a match between two samples that in fact come from
different people; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that if one laboratory
made many errors in external blind proficiency testing and another
laboratory made few, that the laboratory which made many more is more
likely to make a mistake in a given case?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Irrelevant, assumes facts not in evidence,
beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Given the generalization that you just stated, yes, I
guess I would agree with that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you agree, Dr. Cotton, that interpretation of DNA
typing results depends not only on the frequency of a DNA pattern, but
on laboratory error rates as well?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, do you agree, Dr. Cotton, that the strength of a
DNA evidence depends not only on the frequency of the pattern, but on
laboratory error rates as well?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, did you read that portion of the
National Academy of Science report which discusses the role of
laboratory error rates in assessing the weight of DNA evidence?

*DR. COTTON:* That--that's part of the couple pages you just pointed out
to me; is it not?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I read it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And have you thought about those couple of pages prior to
today as well?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And have you considered seriously the points that the
authors of the NRC report are making with regard to the importance of
assessing the laboratory's error rate?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, your Honor. I think this has been asked and
answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. It's different question.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I thought about it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But you simply disagree with the National Academy of
Science recommendations on this particular point; is that right?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, may the jury--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, once again, are you saying that the reason
you don't rely on this portion of the report is simply because you
disagree with it?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection.

*DR. COTTON:* No, I'm not.

*MR. CLARKE:* Asked and answered. Also irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that the measure of a
laboratory's error rate is a separate and independent issue from the
measurement of the frequency of a DNA profile?

*DR. COTTON:* Of course.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. I'm sorry. I'll withdraw it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sorry. I couldn't get your answer.

*THE COURT:* She said, "Of course."

*DR. COTTON:* Of course it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, do you agree with that portion of the NRC report
which explicitly states--

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, excuse me, your Honor. Objection. Hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm not going to quote the portion.

*THE COURT:* It's still hearsay, counsel. I think--let's move on.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, do you agree with the sentiments of the NRC
report--

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Wait. Wait. Sustained. Move on.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that if someone was
falsely implicated by an RFLP DNA test, it would much more likely be due
to sample handling error or cross-contamination rather than due to
coincidental match between people with the same RFLP profile?

*DR. COTTON:* If--yes. Sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, your laboratory has had at least a couple of
instances where you had false matches due to sample handling error and
cross-contamination; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Two.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Compound.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Two.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And using the definition of the four types of proficiency
tests that I have given you in that diagram whose number escapes me--

*THE COURT:* 1153.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you--on 1153, in 1993, how many of your proficiency
tests fall into the category of external blind proficiency tests?

*DR. COTTON:* In 1993, we have very few in external because we--it's a
complicated answer.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, do you prepare a chart where you list the
proficiency tests that you run in a given year? Do you have a chart like
that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And on that chart, do you actually identify which of the
proficiency tests are internal versus which ones are external?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And on that chart, do you also differentiate between
those that are blind and those that are open?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree by the way, Dr. Cotton, that at least
for forensic cases, there's a difference between doing a proficiency
test on a paternity sample with a mother and a child and a purported
father than there is in forensic casework proficiency testing?

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, sure. But we have to do paternity proficiency tests also.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. So my question is, Dr. Cotton, if you look at your
memo, will you be able to tell us in 1993 how many blind external
proficiency tests you did of a forensic nature?

*DR. COTTON:* Blind exter--sure.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay.

*DR. COTTON:* There aren't any.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry. What?

*DR. COTTON:* I can tell you right now, blind external, there aren't any.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And in 1992, Dr. Cotton, how many blind external
proficiency tests utilizing forensic type samples did Cellmark
participate in?

*DR. COTTON:* None. We have never done a blind external, received from
an external agency proficiency tests because there is no external agency
which provides those kinds of tests. So there is no way to get one.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So, Dr. Cotton, is to fair to say then, in the entire six
years that your laboratory has been doing proficiency testing, there is
not a single instance when you have ever been subjected to a blind
external proficiency test?

*DR. COTTON:* That's exactly right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you agree then, Dr. Cotton, that in the absence of
being submitted to any blind external proficiency test, that you really
have no scientific basis for estimating your laboratory's error rate?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't agree with that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Are you aware, Dr. Cotton, that the DNA laboratories that
type bloods for bone marrow transplant registry routinely are subjected
to blind external proficiency tests?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Subject to connection.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Are you aware of that practice, doctor?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I'm not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton, that the only
types of tests that you have available for estimating your error rate as
far as proficiency tests goes are either those tests where you were
testing yourself or those tests where you knew you were being tested; is
that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, can you cite a single article in the field of
laboratory quality assurance which permits a laboratory to assess its
own error rate based on open and internal tests?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I can't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton--

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm about to move on to something new, your Honor. I
don't know if you want to break now.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take our
recess for the morning session. Please remember all of my admonitions to
you; do not discuss the case amongst yourselves, don't form any opinions
about the case, don't allow anybody to communicate with you, do not
conduct any deliberations until the matter has been submitted to you.
We'll stand in recess until 1:00 o'clock. All right. Dr. Cotton, you can
step down.

/(At 12:00 P.M., the noon recess was taken until 1:00 P.M. of the same
day.)/

//*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; MONDAY, MAY 15, 1995 1:02 P.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES:* (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Good afternoon, counsel. Back on the record. All parties
are again present. Let's have the jury, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Dr.
Cotton, would you resume the witness stand, please.

/Robin Cotton, the witness on the stand at the time of the noon recess,
resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* Let the record reflect we have been rejoined by all the
members of our jury panel. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* And Mr. Neufeld, you may continue.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*_CROSS-EXAMINATION (RESUMED_*_) B*Y MR*. *NEUFELD*_

__*MR. NEUFELD:* Good afternoon, Dr. Cotton.

*DR. COTTON:* Good afternoon, Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, putting aside the--the absence of
external blind proficiency tests at Cellmark, would it be fair to say
that you have participated in a number of open proficiency tests since 1988?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we have.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it be fair to say that in--in these open--open
proficiency tests that you have participated in you routinely would
receive a few samples to examine or certainly no more than a handful of
samples?

*THE COURT:* Vague.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* "Handful of samples."

*MR. NEUFELD:* That you would receive no more than, let's say, five
samples in any proficiency test?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah. I would say usually it is three or four per test.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in this case, however, this case meaning People
versus Mr. Simpson, you have received how many different samples from
the Los Angeles Police Department to do DNA typing on?

*DR. COTTON:* (No audible response.)

*MR. NEUFELD:* If you need to look at your records to calculate that
number, please do.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.) 23./

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Excuse me?

*DR. COTTON:* 23.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, that is, however, starting at 01 for our sample
numbers. We went up to 23.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Now, unlike those various open tests that you
just referred to a moment ago where ordinarily you would have three or
four samples given to you to examine, were there two proficiency tests
that you were participating in in 1988 and 1989 where you received 50
samples in each?

*DR. COTTON:* One was 49 and the other was 50.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And those tests in 1988 and 1999 were sponsored by
the California association of crime laboratory directors?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, they were.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. I think the question misstates the evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* If I said `99, I meant 1989. I apologize.

*DR. COTTON:* I understood what you meant.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, let's take a look first at the proficiency tests run
by the California association of crime laboratory directors that you
participated in in the year 1988. First of all, in that proficiency test
did you have any incorrect exclusions?

*DR. COTTON:* No, we didn't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in that particular test, Dr. Cotton, you were given
these different samples and you were asked to type them and determine
which, if any, matched any of the other samples; is that correct, in the
same batch?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And at a subsequent point in time were you provided with
a legend produced by the California association of crime lab directors
telling you which samples in fact matched which other samples?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you were provided with that legend, Dr. Cotton,
didn't they tell you that items 70, 72 and 76 should all match one another?

*DR. COTTON:* That may be right. I don't have my copies with me. Umm, I
do actually have them in the building, but I don't have them down here
with me, so I might need to look at yours.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Fine. Next in order--

*THE COURT:* 1154.

/(Deft's 1154 for id = 6-page report)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Which is a six-page report from the California
association of crime laboratory directors.

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I show you this exhibit, this five-page--I'm sorry,
six-page document from the California association of crime lab directors
and ask you if it refreshes your recollection as to whether or not items
70, 72 and 76 all come from the same source?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And now that it refreshes your recollection, is it
in fact true that the way this test was set up that samples 70, 72 and
76 all originated from the same person?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you did the DNA typing, "you" meaning Cellmark,
not you personally necessarily, did the DNA typing on those three
samples, didn't you conclude that although sample 70 and 72 matched one
another, that sample 76 had a distinct pattern and did not match either
70 or 72?

*DR. COTTON:* That pretty much fits with my recollection, but of--if I'm
remembering this group of three correctly, one of them is a mixture. You
know, I don't have all my documentation of what we reported with me, so--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, isn't it a fact--and by the way here,
if you would like to refresh your recollection, here is Cellmark's
report to the California association. And I would ask that this be
marked next in line--next in order.

*THE COURT:* 1155.

/(Deft's 1155 for id = 3-page report)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Which is a three-page document.

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I want you to look at this.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.) Okay. Do you want to ask me your
question again now?/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Certainly. May I have that back or do you need to look
at it when you answer it?

*DR. COTTON:* For a series of questions regarding this test, if I could
have a copy of both the CACLD table and my report, it would make it a
lot easier for me to answer the questions more easily.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Let me just ask you this question, and I will give
you the report before you answer the question if you need it. All right?

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* First of all, didn't you say in your report on this
particular test--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me, Mr. Neufeld, you need a foundational question.
Do you recognize what it is?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you recognize this three-page document that I just
showed you?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is it your final report to the California association
of crime laboratory directors with respect to your results on the 1988
proficiency test that they gave you?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in that report, Dr. Cotton, didn't you state that the
patterns obtained from stains numbered 70 and 72 were the same?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And didn't you state in that same report that you did
obtain a pattern for sample 76 that was suitable for comparison purposes
but was not found to match the other samples tested?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did say that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that since 76 is
supposed to come from the same person as 70 and 72, the fact that you
got a pattern but you failed to match it with 70 and 72 would be a
wrongful--I'm sorry--would be a false exclusion?

*DR. COTTON:* I wouldn't phrase it that way, first of all, because I
have to--I would need to determine whether that was this mixture that I
was remembering. And secondly, you have to go back to the films to look
at the two patterns that you are talking about and see if there is
enough data in each of those. That is, if you can't--not making a match
is sort of like saying it is inconclusive. We didn't actually even make
a list in this report of things which were specifically excluded, so it
may mean, based on the data, that we were unable to come to a
conclusion, not that we literally said something was excluded and then
it was not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, isn't it a fact that item 76 was not a
mixture?

*DR. COTTON:* Let me come back to this. No, item 76 was not a mixture,
but item 72 was a mixture.

*MR. NEUFELD:* What about item 70?

*DR. COTTON:* And item 70 was not a mixture.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right. So item 76, according to the way this test was set
up, should have matched item 70; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And even though you got a pattern for item 76,
which was not a mixture, you did not state that it matched item 70;
isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so the failure to declare that match would be a
mistake, wouldn't it?

*DR. COTTON:* It--

*MR. NEUFELD:* By the definition of the test?

*DR. COTTON:* It would if the two patterns were both of equal quality
and we just missed it. Remember that at the--remember, you don't--I
guess you don't really know this, but each of these samples, these 49
samples, was extracted as if it were a sexual assault sample because we
had no information, and in that type of extraction, which is not
something that was done in this particular case, you try to separate DNA
from--from a sperm fraction from any DNA that is in something else. So
of the 49 samples you end up with really two samples from each of the
49, giving you a total of 98, and so you have 98 patterns which were
manually visibly compared to one another, and if the patterns are both
good, and I can't recall if they are, the fact that we missed seeing it
in all this comparison of 98 patterns with, you know, every other
pattern of the 98 is a--is an error in finding that match, but in my
mind does not--I do not think of it as a false exclusion, a wrongful
exclusion.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, I appreciate that you don't consider it a wrongful
exclusion, but--and you said that one of your concerns was that you
don't know how clear the pattern was; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would it--the fact that your report states that the
pattern for 76 was suitable for comparison purposes, would that refresh
your recollection as to whether the pattern for 76 was in fact suitable
for comparison purposes?

*DR. COTTON:* Right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would it?

*DR. COTTON:* I understand that it says that, but that doesn't give me
any information. The mixture pattern was a problem and it doesn't
provide any information about the pattern for 70, so--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Excuse me, Dr. Cotton.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, could the witness finish her answer, please?

*THE COURT:* No. "So" is a pause clearly. Proceed.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, what I'm saying is I don't have enough information
in front of me to give you a clearance as to whether or not that was not
mentioned, because it was basically an inconclusive or whether or not we
simply missed the--seeing the match and--and we could have made a match
and did not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, is there any qualification in this report,
when you are describing the pattern comparisons of sample 70, which is
not a mixture, with sample 72?

*DR. COTTON:* No, there isn't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And of course in your laboratory you wouldn't have called
a match if that pattern on item no. 70 wasn't sufficiently clear and
robust to compare with 72; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That would be correct in general, but I remember that--I
mean, I've looked at these films on several different occasions. They
are not as good as the films that we produce now, and so there are
things about those films that might lead to problems in interpretation.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, you wouldn't have said in your report,
quote, referring to item no. 76 "These patterns were suitable for
comparison purposes but were not found in the other samples tested,"
unquote, unless that was true, would you?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Next in order.

*THE COURT:* 1156.

/(Deft's 1156 for id = photograph)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Deputy District Attorney and
Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, I show you this photograph and ask you is
that the photograph reflecting your comparison of samples 70, 72 and 76
that we were just discussing?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it seems to be, except these weren't all on the same
film, so this appears to be various--one, two, three, four, five
patterns from different films lined up to be able to photograph them.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. But the actual lanes themselves represent the
samples that were tested by your laboratory in this proficiency test,
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Can I ask a question about the picture? Do you know
whether or not the labeling across--the labeling across the top must
have been put on in order to make the picture, so I--

*MR. NEUFELD:* The label across the top, very much the same way the
label was put on the autorads in this particular case.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So could you identify which lanes are attributable to
which samples? The same thing was done in this photograph. Does that help?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Okay. With the Court's permission I would like to
put it up on the elmo.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, what is the easiest way for me to point to
different lanes for the witness?

*THE COURT:* Probably the power point.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, would you like to step down? I think it
would be easier for you to see this.

*DR. COTTON:* I would.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in this particular proficiency test series of
autorads, it is basically divided up into three different samples. As
you can see at the top of the photograph there, there is sample 70,
sample 72 and finally sample 76. Do you see that?

*DR. COTTON:* I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And the lane that represents the non-semen fraction
of sample 76 is the second lane from the right where the pink arrow is
pointing at. Do you see that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And now, what I would like you to do is not look at
the mixture, but I would like you to compare--can we have a pink dot
just so we will have a permanent point of reference there, so the
witness can go back and forth. All right. Now, what I would like you to
do is compare the pattern that you see in that lane, the second lane
from the right, to go all the way across to sample 70 to the third lane
which is also the non-semen fraction of sample 70. Do you see that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I see it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Can you put a mark there as well, please. Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, according to the providers of this test,
the profile on item 70 that the pink arrow is looking at on the left
should match the pattern in sample 76 where there is an arrow there on
the far right; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I don't think so.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, both sample 70 and sample 76 are not--are not
mixtures; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right. I think you are misreading their key,
because it is sample 72 that is a mixture of 70 and 76 and 76 clearly
does not match 70, but 70 should match one pattern in 72 and 76 should
match the other pattern in 72.

*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, again referring you to the code that was
given to you by the California association of crime laboratory directors
after you did these tests, wouldn't you agree that sample 70 is simply
semen, not a mixture that was collected on 7/85? Would you agree with that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that for item no. 76 it
is also the same semen that was drawn on July of 1985, according to this
log?

*DR. COTTON:* That is not--yes, it is semen, but it is not the same as
70. I don't think that is the intention of that sample description.

*MR. NEUFELD:* On the face of this sample description, Dr. Cotton, would
you agree that it says that item 70 and item 76 come from the same person?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think that is what that means.

*MR. NEUFELD:* From looking at this report, is it your understanding
that the California association of crime laboratories grouped all
samples that came from the same person in the same box?

*DR. COTTON:* What they've done is grouped all samples that could be
related in the same box and these are grouped together, (Indicating),
because both 70 and 76 should match 72, because 72 is a mixture, so that
is why they are in the same box. But it doesn't mean, and I'm sure that
they could confirm this, that 70 and 76 were the same. I mean, there
wouldn't be any point of making a mixtures of 70 and 76 if they were
from the same person, and so I feel confident that that is what that means.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. One moment.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* If we work off of your premises, Dr. Cotton, then
nonetheless, according to this log, sample 76 should be consistent with
the mixed stain in sample 72; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, you are absolutely right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that in your report you
failed to state or include 76 as being consistent with the profile in 72?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that's right, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You can have a seat again, please.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment, your Honor.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* With the Court's permission I would like to put up next
in order which--

*THE COURT:* 1157.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It is not actually--it is going to be one page of the--of
the six-page report of the CACLD.

*THE COURT:* All right. Which page?

*MR. NEUFELD:* It is going to be page 5.

*THE COURT:* All right. Page 5 of 1154.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* You need to clear the power point there, Mr. Harris. Thank you.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, I'm going to raise an objection as to
hearsay at this point.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, did you say you recognized this six-page
report as a report that you received from the California association of
crime laboratory directors assessing your results in this proficiency test?

*DR. COTTON:* Umm, what I did was look at the two keys and I recognized
them. If you would like me to look at the six pages, then I can--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Please do. I'm sorry, I thought you had.

*DR. COTTON:* /(Witness complies.)/ The report was, I believe, not just
to us; the other two labs that participated and other people in--within
the CACLD.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But this is an accurate copy of the report that you
received from the California association of crime laboratory directors
regarding the results of the 1988 proficiency tests?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And by the way, when you ordinarily participate in
proficiency tests, is it the ordinary course of business that the
provider of the proficiency test furnishes the participant with a report
evaluating your performance?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is this report that type of report?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, with the Court's permission I would now like
to put up page 5.

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Do you have an exception?

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* And when these proficiency tests are given to
laboratories such as your own, is the provider of the proficiency test
under an obligation to report the results accurately?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah, I think they certainly would try to do that. I have
seen mistakes in reports, but you know, everybody, when they do this, is
trying to report the results accurately.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that would be the general obligation of any provider
of this type of report?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I would offer the page again, your Honor. I think it is a
business record exception, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Not with this foundation.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*THE COURT:* You are missing three points at this point.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, was this report sent to you in the ordinary
course of business?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it was.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And is a copy of this report actually retained by you in
your record as part of the or in the course of Cellmark's business?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Again, your Honor, I believe that--

*THE COURT:* Counsel, why don't you take a look at the evidence code.
You are still missing a few items.

*MR. NEUFELD:* One moment, your Honor.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Doctor, are the results that are contained in this report
recorded at or near the time of the events that it reflects?

*DR. COTTON:* Since I didn't participate in writing the report, I
wouldn't know. I mean, I know that it was done after the proficiency
tests were completed, but that is all I know in terms of its timing.

*THE COURT:* And who maintains these records?

*DR. COTTON:* They would be maintained by the CACLD.

*THE COURT:* And are they relied upon as being accurate by those
persons, members of that organization?

*DR. COTTON:* I assume so.

*MR. NEUFELD:* With the Court's help, may I now publish page 5?

*THE COURT:* Please.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. Thank you very much, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* I am just trying to save some time here.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I appreciate it.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry, I still have an objection as to at least one of
the elements, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, in this particular test you received
49 samples from the California association of crime laboratory
directors; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in fact the data that applies to Cellmark would be in
the column on the far right of that particular exhibit?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And of the 49 samples that you received, you were able to
generate results on 44 of those 49; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. We--yes, we have some kind of DNA results from 44.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so as to the remaining five samples, that would be
the third number in that column, you were unable to generate DNA results?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that is what the report says.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And now the fourth item on that list is a no. 1; is that
correct, with a series of little asterisks next to it?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that no. 1 indicates that out of the 44 samples that
you were able to type that you made one incorrect match; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And when you say one incorrect match, that would be the
equivalent of one false positive; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, the way you got this false positive, Dr. Cotton, on
this particular proficiency test, that is there were two samples, namely
57 and 58, that came from the same person; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, again, I don't remember the sample numbers, but
there were two samples--you can go on and I'm pretty sure I can follow
you without the specific sample number.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Let me show you a photograph. Next in order--let me show
you, Dr. Cotton, what is Defense 1157, next in order.

*MR. CLARKE:* Sorry. Could I see it, please?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Oh.

/(Deft's 1157 for id = autorad)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, does that photograph appear to illustrate
the banding patterns for three different samples that you tested in that
proficiency test; namely, 57, 58 and 59?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. NEUFELD:* With the Court's permission I would like to put it up on
the elmo.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* I think we need the numbers at the top, Mr. Harris.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr. Cotton, if you need to step down, please do.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* When you did the DNA testing on these three different
samples, 57, 58 and 59, did you utilize what you earlier testified to in
this trial as a single locus cocktail?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that is a situation where instead of simply probing
the DNA with one genetic marker, you do more than one genetic marker at
the same time?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that is how you produce more than two bands in a
lane; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you place an arrow next to 57 down on the lane.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, is that profile the DNA profile that the
pointer is pointing at, the DNA profile from sample 57?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. All right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr.--whoops--and Dr. Cotton, is that second arrow
pointing at the DNA profile representing sample 58?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Is that arrow now pointing to sample 58 as well?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, is the third arrow now pointing at DNA
profile, the sample 59?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, in this particular proficiency test Dr. Cotton,
sample 57 and 58 came from one person, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Can I look at the key?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sure.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And sample 59 comes from a different person?

*DR. COTTON:* 59 should have come from a different person.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Right. Okay. Now, when you analyzed these three samples
at Cellmark, were they all processed as part of the same batch?

*DR. COTTON:* I think that they were, but since I was not--I wasn't
really supervising any work in the laboratory at the time that this test
was done, the records, if I remember correctly, indicate that they were
processed in two separate batches, so it is possible that 59, 58 and 57
were processed at the same time.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you return to your seat, please.

*/DR. COTTON:/*/Sure. (Witness complies.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. And would it be fair to say, Dr. Cotton,
that somehow during the processing of these samples that either--that
DNA from either sample 57 or sample 58 was accidentally put into the
tube with sample 59?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And that mistake led to the false match of 59 with sample
57 and 58; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And wouldn't you agree, Dr. Cotton, that the bands in
this false match are as strong and as clear as the bands in the match
between Mr. Simpson's sample and item 5 to in this case?

*MR. CLARKE:* Excuse me. Objection, argumentative, your Honor. Also
irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, with respect to band density and relative
band densities, would you agree that the bands in this proficiency test
where you had a false match between 59 and 57 and 58, are as dense as
the bands in item 52 in our case?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Argumentative.

*THE COURT:* It is irrelevant.

*MR. NEUFELD:* May we have a side bar, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Did you say earlier during your testimony, Dr. Cotton,
that at the time you did the proficiency testing in this--in 1988 and
1989, that you were not producing as high quality autorads as you are
currently producing in your laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Given that statement, Dr. Cotton, wouldn't you agree that
the banding profile in item 59 and its comparison with item 57 is as
high quality a banding pattern as the banding pattern you have comparing
52 with Mr. Simpson's reference sample in this case?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, would you agree that just by looking at the
photograph of the autorads in this case, that there is no way just by
looking at them that you can tell that you had in fact gotten a false match?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I agree with that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree that the reason that you have this
false match is because the original sample that was in the tube for 59
was so degraded as to not be observable?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Same objection, same grounds.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. CLARKE:* Also calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think we know whether it was degraded or it was
just too small of a quantity.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But both of those explanations could produce a result
where you don't see a DNA pattern; isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in our case, Dr. Cotton, had the DNA, the original
DNA from the Bundy drops been so degraded due to handling or packaging
or processing, such that you wouldn't see a DNA pattern in the original
sample and then it was cross-contaminated with Mr. Simpson's reference
sample, would you also have this same phenomena?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence, also calls for
speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that this type of
phenomena that you observed here for sample 59 can occur whenever the
original sample is so degraded that it will not leave a visual pattern
and is then contaminated with another sample of DNA?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection; same grounds.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I would.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, had the--had you then been asked to type
a frequency for this particular match, that frequency would indicate a
very rare event, would it not?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, irrelevant. Also assumes facts not in evidence,
calls for speculation.

*THE COURT:* Are you speaking of 1157, the patterns that are here?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, you would type--you would make a frequency and it
would almost certainly indicate that banding pattern was a rare event.

*MR. NEUFELD:* In fact, Dr. Cotton, for this particular banding pattern,
didn't you generate in your report to the CACLD that it had a frequency
of approximately one in 1.8 billion?

*DR. COTTON:* If you are reading to our report, then in--yes. I know
that we generated frequencies. Obviously I can't remember what the
frequency was for a particular pattern.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, please take a look?

*/DR. COTTON:/*/(Witness complies.) Yes, you read it correctly./

//*MR. NEUFELD:* And so what you are saying in this particular report is
the frequency of that match between item 57 and item 59 occurs in the
population with a frequency of approximately one--I'm sorry--occurs with
a frequency of approximately one in 1.8 billion people; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Right. We are seeing the frequency of the pattern. Not the
frequency of the match, but the frequency of the pattern would be--well,
for that report it says 1.8 billion.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, if had been a real case, item 57, 58 and 59, and
not simply a proficiency test, you would have declared a match between
item 57 and 59; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that's right, and we would have also generated a
frequency.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And the frequency that you would have generated would
have been one in 1.8 billion people, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But in fact in this particular example there was a 1 in
50 chance that it was a false positive; isn't that correct?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, was it a one in 50 chance that it was a false
positive in this particular proficiency test?

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* You were given 50 samples to look at, were you not?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And on one of the 50--

*DR. COTTON:* 49.

*THE COURT:* We've got a Collins problem here, counsel.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, then let me ask you this simple question, Dr.
Cotton. I hope it is simple. In this particular instance you said the
frequency of the pattern was one in 1.8 billion people; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But in fact it is a false positive between 59 and 57,
isn't it?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So the one in 1.8 billion would incorrectly create some
value to that match which would be a distortion, wouldn't it?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative, also irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that since 59 and 57
don't match it would be wrong to suggest, in that particular instance,
that that match is valued at a frequency of one in 1.8 billion people?

*DR. COTTON:* You keep referring to a value of a match. The frequency
doesn't tell you anything except how often you would see this banding
pattern, so the frequency is only that. It doesn't say anything more
than that. And yes, you are correct, this is a false match. This is an
incorrect match. It was caused by laboratory error.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Because it is a false positive match that number of one
in 1.8 billion doesn't apply to the frequency of the pattern in lane 59;
isn't that correct?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, irrelevant, also misleading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, it actually still applies to the frequency of that
pattern. The frequency of that pattern is whatever it is. In fact, that
pattern matches because it is the same DNA as I actually believe it is
58 that that--we demonstrated that sample came from. It is like you are
talking about--I'm hearing what you are asking is talking about apples
and oranges.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, Dr. Cotton, would you agree that if this particular
proficiency test was a real case that the statistic of one in 1.8
billion would be irrelevant if in fact you knew it was a false match
between 59 and 57?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative. Also asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it would be irrelevant.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, after you got this false positive in this series of
proficiency tests in 1988, did you make changes in your procedures in an
attempt to prevent or at least to minimize the likelihood that DNA from
a sample could cross-contaminate another sample?

*DR. COTTON:* We made changes in our procedures to specifically address
the way that this particular contamination occurred.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And did you believe that when you made those changes that
that took care or solved the problem?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I think it solved this problem. That--that clearly
doesn't imply that it could solve every possible problem.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But in 1989, the very next year, you participated in a
second round of California association of crime laboratory directors
proficiency testing, didn't you?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in that second round of testing you got another 50
samples, didn't you?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you got another false positive in this next batch,
didn't you?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, this again was caused by DNA from one sample
cross-contaminating a second sample, was it not?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And did you conduct a full investigation to try and
discover what caused this cross-contamination?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in that investigation did you conclude that the
amount of the contaminant which caused the false positive was somewhere
between 20 and 50 nanograms of DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in this particular case, Dr. Cotton, this case being
the Simpson case, wasn't it your estimate that the quantity of DNA in
lane item sample 52 was approximately 25 nanograms of DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* It was my estimate that the amount of DNA that is
participating in giving that pattern is 25 to 50. The total amount of
DNA in that sample was more like 200, and I remember giving an
explanation of where those two numbers came from.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But the amount of DNA that is actually in the lane is
somewhere around 25 nanograms? Was that your initial estimate?

*DR. COTTON:* The amount of DNA that is giving the pattern is between 25
and 50. The amount of DNA handled with that sample in total is about 200.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So the amount of DNA that is 25 to 50 nanograms in that
particular item, at least as it appears in the RFLP test, would be
within the 25 to 50 nanogram range that you attributed to the
cross-contamination in the proficiency test; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, how did you go about attempting to figure out how
you got this false match in 1989?

*DR. COTTON:* We went into all the handwritten notes. Two different
analysts had done the samples. We spoke with the analysts to find out
what samples they had done adjacent to one another. And the reason
was--when I say "adjacent," that the test-tube rack holds, I don't know,
say, 15 samples across the top row and another 15 samples across the
bottom row, but anyway, about 15 could be side-by-side. We knew that--we
knew a whole lot of places where we could figure out a whole lot of
places where the contamination didn't occur, and so--we were finally
able to analyze that the contamination had to have occurred in the
extraction of the sperm fraction. Again, everything was extracted as if
it could have a non-sperm and a sperm fraction, it could have occurred
in the extractions of the sperm fractions, and the samples that were
involved in producing the contamination were worked side-by-side. So we
were able to eliminate other places where it could have occurred, for
example, as you load the gel. It couldn't have occurred as you load the
gel because the two samples weren't loaded side-by-side. So anyway, we
narrowed it down to this one section and beyond that we weren't able to
definitively say exactly how the contamination occurred. We could just
say it occurred in these series of steps.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, so what you did, in other words, even after this
thorough investigation on your part, was to narrow it down to about what
point in time the cross-contamination occurred; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Right, what series of steps in the analysis that it occurred.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you determined that it happened at some point during
the extraction process?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, in dealing with the sperm fractions.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But even to this day, Dr. Cotton, would it be fair to say
that you don't know how the accidental contamination occurred during the
extraction process?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that would be fair to say that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would it also be fair to say that this
cross-contamination, this accidental cross-contamination happened in
spite of the fact that all of the sample transfers were witnessed by a
second person to make sure that no errors occurred?

*DR. COTTON:* You are exactly right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And again, Dr. Cotton, after you got this second false
positive, did you make certain changes in your protocol again to try and
avoid this type of problem from recurring in the future?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And what changes did you make?

*DR. COTTON:* We mandated that the DNA extractions for the known samples
could not be done out on the bench at the same time as the DNA
extractions from the evidence samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would the DNA extractions from the known sample be put
into a different extraction rack than the DNA samples from the evidence?

*DR. COTTON:* They simply wouldn't be done at the same time.

*MR. NEUFELD:* They would still be in the same rack?

*DR. COTTON:* No, no, no, no. You don't--

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry, I thought you mentioned before there was this
rack and it might have 15 samples in it or some such number. Did you say
something to that effect?

*DR. COTTON:* I did, in talking about the CACLD analysis.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, do you also have a similar kind of rack process
when you are analyzing case work?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So what I'm asking you is under your current protocol
will you ever have the extraction from the reference sample at the time
of extraction sitting in the same rack as the evidentiary specimens?

*DR. COTTON:* No, we don't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And based on your experience, Dr. Cotton, and your
expertise, would you agree that a laboratory which places the reference
sample at the time of extraction in that same rack with the evidentiary
specimens runs the risk of falsely incriminating innocent people?

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, would you agree that a laboratory that
extracts the reference sample and puts it in the same rack, same
extraction rack as the evidentiary specimens, runs the risk of getting
false matches between the reference sample and the evidence?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence, also calls for
speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, based on our experience and that that happened in
our lab, then obviously it is possible.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Since 1989 there have been no more CACLD proficiency
tests, have there?

*DR. COTTON:* No, there haven't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And since 1989 I believe you said you haven't
participated in any proficiency tests where you have been asked to
handle more than a dozen samples; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I think I said we haven't--the proficiency tests
normally have three or four samples.

*MR. NEUFELD:* So certainly there haven't been any with a dozen?

*DR. COTTON:* No, there aren't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I believe you also said in this case you have been asked
to analyze 23 samples?

*DR. COTTON:* In this case in total we analyzed two samples. That was
done over a relatively long period of time, so they weren't all
analyzed--they weren't all received at the same time and of course they
weren't all analyzed at the same time.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And Dr. Cotton, these false matches that you made on
these open proficiency tests, they were made during the first two years
that your laboratory was doing DNA typing?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, would it be fair to say that you have been improving
your technique over the last six years?

*DR. COTTON:* That is the goal.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But I think you also said that you have no control over
the possibility of cross-contamination that occurs on samples before you
receive them?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, that is obvious.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And in this case every sample that you received was
initially collected, packaged and processed by the Los Angeles Police
Department?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, assumes facts--also lack of foundation.

*THE COURT:* Well, we have been through this series of questions about
five times now.

*MR. NEUFELD:* It is a foundation question for the next one and there is
no other question on that, your Honor. With the Court's permission I
would just like to ask that one question.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, that is my understanding.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, since you became involved with the Los Angeles
Police Department, have you ever been asked to review the Los Angeles
Police Department's procedures that were used in this case?

*DR. COTTON:* No, I haven't.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Do you have any personal knowledge, as a profession, as
an expert, as to the extent that the Los Angeles Police Department has
been subjected to external blind proficiency testing?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, beyond the scope. Also assumes facts not in
evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that you are more reliable
now as a laboratory than you were in the first two years of your
operation when you made these two false positives on the CACLD tests?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* I don't know that because we made these errors in the
tests that we were unreliable in our other work. I--I don't know how to
answer that question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, let me ask you this, Dr. Cotton: Do you think that
you are still getting false positives with the same degree of frequency
now that you got them in those two proficiency tests in 1988 and 1989?

*DR. COTTON:* Certainly based on our current proficiency test results we
are not.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And do you know, Dr. Cotton, as to how long the LAPD have
been doing DNA case work before they did the work in this case?

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection, beyond the scope.

*MR. NEUFELD:* No further questions of the witness, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke, are you ready?

*MR. CLARKE:* Could we take a break, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, with the Court's permission I would like to
substitute 1157-A, which is the printout, for 1157.

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Deft's 1157-A for id = photograph)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry, there is both--a photograph which is 1157
and a photograph which is 1157-A.

*THE COURT:* The one which the arrows are on, correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* That's correct.

*THE COURT:* All right. We will add 1157-A in addition.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you.

*THE COURT:* Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned to you, every time we
shift I will allow the attorneys time to reorganize their exhibits.
Please remember all my admonitions to you. This will only be about, Mr.
Clarke, about fifteen minutes?

*MR. CLARKE:* That's fine, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ask the jury to step back in the jury room. And
we will stand in recess for fifteen.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record. I'm sorry. Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Just two very brief matters of housekeeping, your Honor.
One is, I would like to have made a Court's exhibit that document that I
showed the Court as a good faith basis for asking about Fung and
Mazzola's DQ-Alpha typing.

*THE COURT:* Certainly. We'll make that Defense exhibit 1158.

/(Deft's 1158 for id = document)/

//*THE COURT:* Out of the presence. Starting my four hundred and first
page of notes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And one other matter, your Honor, is that we still have
this problem with the frequencies on the mixed stains. I'm told by Dr.
Thompson that although he offered to meet with the other parties at
lunch time, that offer was rejected. And we have this problem of these
numbers. Now, you heard and you received the numbers that Dr. Thompson
came up with simply following the NRC method, which is to aggregate the
frequencies from the discovery that they gave us.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Neufeld, let me cut to the chase. Mr.
Clarke, what's the prognosis of getting together and seeing if we can
agree upon the aggregate numbers?

*MR. CLARKE:* I just didn't hear the last part, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* That we can agree on the aggregated numbers.

*MR. CLARKE:* That--what I've been waiting for is, if the Defense will
offer us a set of numbers--and they've done that as to DQ-Alpha on the
steering wheel I believe--we will be glad to review them. It hasn't gone
any further than that. And I think to say that I rejected an opportunity
to meet with the Defense is a bit funny since there's simply a lot going
on at the moment. But yes, if they will offer us some numbers, we will
be happy to look at it.

*THE COURT:* Well, the problem is, it's your number. So you need to
offer it. But using this methodology, when do you think you can get us
some numbers or similar methodology?

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Under--and I would like to address again the Court
about that manner and I don't know if the Court wants to take that
up--manner, not matter. Manner of calculation. Does the Court wish to
take that up now or following the redirect, recross, et cetera? Well,
Dr. Cotton--maybe I can short-circuit. Dr. Cotton has told me, and
although we don't agree that this is what should be done, that this
method could be done I believe in about an hour or--

*DR. COTTON:* Hour to an hour and a half.

*MR. CLARKE:* Hour to an hour and a half. She has to sit down, but we
would like to address you about the propriety of what frequency or what
approach to do, and we have to do that yet.

*THE COURT:* Okay. I would suggest then that we continue with the
redirect examination and recross. And your indication to me, if I
recollect correctly from last week, is that Dr. Cotton will reappear
later in the case.

*MR. CLARKE:* That's possible that may not occur. Now, counsel for the
Defense also indicated that perhaps there would be no objection to Mr.
Sims making some of these calculations across the markers. That may or
may not solve that. I don't know. But the answer is, Dr. Cotton will be
available. Whether she's--there's a need to recall her or not--

*THE COURT:* I would like to conclude Dr. Cotton for all purposes
tomorrow if not sooner.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. One of the problems is, the Court did not allow
Dr. Cotton to recalculate--not recalculate, but calculate the
frequencies across even the Department of Justice numbers. So if that
comes to pass, then obviously she will be returning, if the foundation
has to be laid.

*THE COURT:* Okay. All right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Just as to these numbers then, your Honor--I mean, I know
Dr. Cotton said she had to be out of here by Wednesday afternoon. As you
can tell, I'm finished with my cross-examination now. So that's not a
problem. But I definitely want to leave with the jury during this visit
of Dr. Cotton's a sense of just how common these frequencies are.

*THE COURT:* Well, let's see if we can do this though. If Dr. Cotton
says that she can do this calculation in an hour to an hour and a half,
let's see if we can't conclude the redirect, the recross, allow her the
remainder of the day and the evening to do these calculations, come back
tomorrow morning and see where we are. Let's see if we can do that.

*MR. NEUFELD:* That's certainly fine. Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. CLARKE:* Can I just have a quick moment, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Sure.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* But let's see if we can finish this afternoon with
everything except those numbers.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, it may make more sense that--particularly in
view of the fact that Dr. Cotton is not going to be allowed to testify
now about the Department of Justice frequencies, that we will want to
bring her back for that purpose. And therefore, can we take care of all
of the frequency matter when there's more time to address it appropriately?

*THE COURT:* All right. Well, let's see how far we get today.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. The
record should reflect that we have been rejoined by all the members of
our jury panel. Dr. Cotton, would you resume the witness stand. And, Mr.
Clarke, you may redirect.

*MR. CLARKE:* Thank you, your Honor. Good afternoon again, ladies and
gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*_REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR_*_. *CLARKE*_

__*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, with regard to these proficiency tests that
you were asked questions about earlier today, can you estimate for us or
otherwise tell us the number of proficiency tests that your laboratory
has taken since 1989?

*DR. COTTON:* I made a count, assuming I counted correctly, since the
beginning of 1990 till the end of 1993, comes to about 104, and there
have been ongoing tests in 1994 and continuing into `95, but they're not
reflected in the documentation I have with me. So I didn't include those.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, is that just the number of different tests that the
laboratory has taken, proficiency tests?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. CLARKE:* And I believe you said that was through 1993?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Is there any way you can estimate the number of tests, for
instance, in 1994?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Hearsay and discovery.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Excuse me. Sustained on the--as to speculation,
asking to estimate.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* With regard to these--and I'm sorry. What was the number
again since 1989 through 1993?

*DR. COTTON:* I counted 104.

*MR. CLARKE:* How many different samples--do you have a count of the
total number of different samples that those 100 plus tests included?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* How many is that?

*DR. COTTON:* 466.

*MR. CLARKE:* Of those 466 samples since 1989, that is proficiency test
samples that have been tested, how many errors has the laboratory made?

*DR. COTTON:* There are no false positives and no incorrect exclusions
in the remainder of those samples since 1989.

*MR. CLARKE:* Since 1989, has your laboratory made or have they typed
any false positives in any test?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I can only--I can only tell you what we're aware of
and--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Objection. It's speculation at that point,
your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Obviously--

*THE COURT:* She said, "Only that I'm aware of." That's not speculation.
Proceed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, may I just ask for clarification? Is this
proficiency testing? I just--

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Could the witness be allowed to conclude her
answer? I believe she was in mid sentence.

*THE COURT:* Yes, she was.

*DR. COTTON:* The only measure we have of a false positive or a false
exclusion is on a proficiency test. I obviously can not tell you in a
case because we--as was pointed out earlier, we don't know what the
result is supposed to be. I can't tell you whether in the number of
cases that we done--have done, whether there are any because although
it's possible you would be able to pick it out, it's not a guarantee
that you would be able to pick it out by any stretch. And, therefore, I
can only tell you in reference to the proficiency tests, and I can't
tell you any further than that.

*MR. CLARKE:* Perhaps I misspoke. Actually I was addressing myself only
to proficiency tests and those tests that you've taken since 1989.

*DR. COTTON:* There are no false--additional false positives and there
are no incorrect exclusions in the proficiency tests since 1989.

*MR. CLARKE:* Incidentally, as far as this area of proficiency testing,
what role if any did your proficiency tests have to do with your
accreditation by the American Society of Crime Laboratory Directors?

*DR. COTTON:* Like the TWGDAM guidelines, the ASCLAD lab requires that
each analyst take two tests per year, and one of them must be from an
approved--an ASCLAD approved proficiency test provider. And we must sign
documentation agreeing with--that we will give those results back to a
committee--back to ASCLAD--it's a committee within ASCLAD lab--for their
review. So not only are they being reviewed by our laboratory, but
they're being reviewed by ASCLAD.

*MR. CLARKE:* Was this or did these proficiency tests play any role in
your accreditation process?

*DR. COTTON:* We--if we had not been doing the level of proficiency
testing that we have, our lab would not have been accredited.

*MR. CLARKE:* And it was accredited; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I'd like to change topics to--and do you recall a
series of hypothetical questions asked you by Mr. Neufeld about various
swatches taken from the Bundy crime scene?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* And in particular, do you recall being asked questions
about the various blood drops starting from the drop closest to the
victims' bodies, no. 47, through and including the remaining drops, 48,
49, 50, and then finally 52 out in the driveway area?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do you recall his questioning you about the possibility
that each and every one of those samples was cross-contaminated by
contact with swatches taken at a different scene; mainly, the Rockingham
home?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* First of all, how can DNA get from one swatch on to
another swatch by contact?

*DR. COTTON:* If both swatches were wet and they were in immediate
contact with each other presumably because they were wet, you could have
some exchange of material. If they were dry, that would be harder and
you might have to have sort of an excess of material on the swatch, such
that some was basically sort of flaking off. But it would be harder if
they were dry than if they were wet.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I believe you described during your cross-examination
that that type of transfer from one swatch from one location, that is
seized at one location, to another location seized from another location
was scientifically possible; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. I'm--there's--I can't say that it's impossible.

*MR. CLARKE:* Would it be the case--and first of all, you have already
testified about various results from the Bundy crime scene; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* That included this series of blood drops, items 47 through 52?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Except for item 51 I believe was not one of those
particular samples, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And you described, for instance, typing results from the
shoeprint, which is item 56?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* As well as the boot drop, item no. 78. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, your Honor, with the Court's permission, I would like
to use the Bundy results board at this time. And I believe that's
People's exhibit 259.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Deputy Smith, why don't you grab that other--I think we
need it up just a bit. Great. Thank you.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, Dr. Cotton, can you see those results without--we
won't be going into the individual types and their results, but can you
see basically each of those item numbers beginning with 47 from where
you're seated?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I'd better step down.

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, let me just try it a different way.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. CLARKE:* Let's start with item no. 47, the first drop by the
victims. And what I'm going to ask you is, for the hypothetical, this
hypothetical possibility of a transfer occurring from one set of
swatches seized at one location to these particular set of swatches,
would it be correct that these individual items, first of all, would
have to be collected; in other words, collected by some evidence
collector at the Bundy crime scene? Let's start with item 47.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* For that hypothetical to be true about this
cross-contamination, would the DNA in that particular sample, again, the
first drop by the victims, no. 47, have to degrade to the point that you
could detect no DNA whatsoever even by PCR?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Would that item in terms of the swatch or swatches for
each individual item then have to come into contact with these swatches
from a totally different scene and a different item number?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And again, what type of contact would be needed for this
to happen?

*DR. COTTON:* Very--very close contact.

*MR. CLARKE:* What do you mean by that?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, they basically have to be right on top--they would
have to be touching.

*MR. CLARKE:* Physically touching?

*DR. COTTON:* Physically touching.

*MR. CLARKE:* Is touching enough or does something have to physically
happen from one swatch to the other swatch?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, let's put it this way. Touching is the minimum.

*MR. CLARKE:* What actually has to transfer from one swatch to the next
swatch for this hypothetical to actually be true?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, given that the swatches are bloodstains, white blood
cells have to transfer--I mean, you wouldn't have just white, but you
would have to have blood cells transferring off one swatch and on to the
other.

*MR. CLARKE:* What would have to be the quantity and quality of these
cells that have gone from one swatch to the other swatch so that you
could only detect the material that transferred?

*DR. COTTON:* The material on the swatch from which the contamination
was coming would have to be of sufficient quantity and quality to do the
testing--to appear on the final test. So given that one now had
completely degraded so you couldn't test it, you would have to have
enough transfer from the other swatch, enough DNA of sufficient quality
to be able to now see it on the test.

*MR. CLARKE:* And then ultimately--and you've described that final step.
Ultimately, for this hypothetical to be true, you would then have to go
through a typing process and only detect the types from the swatches
that supposedly cross-contaminated, for instance, item no. 47?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, would that same occurrence for this hypothetical to
be true have to have happened to item no. 48, the next Bundy walkway drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* As well as 49, the next drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* 50, the next drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And 52, the next drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, let's talk in a little bit more detail about item no.
52. What do we know about the quantity and quality in item no. 52 in
comparison to 47, 48, 49 and 50, the earlier drops on the walkway?

*DR. COTTON:* We know that the quality of the DNA in 52 is sufficiently
good to give an RFLP banding pattern. That is, some of the DNA is good
enough to do that. And it--and you can--you can see on the mini gel that
it's much better than the 49 and 50 which were also run on mini gels.
And then as far as 47 and 48, that--that was not good enough either. So
basically 52 is in much better shape than 47, 48, 49 and 50.

*MR. CLARKE:* Does that mean the DNA transferred by this hypothetical
from another swatch at another scene to the material in item no. 52
would have to be some amount in quality of DNA in excess of the
remaining drops?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Is there any way to describe that difference in how much
and what the quality of the DNA would have to be?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, in terms of quality, it would--there is a
sub--I'm--I have a very good recollection of what 49 and 50 look like
for some reason. So I'll just use those as an example. The difference in
the level of degradation between 49 and--49 and 50 look about the same,
and they are very different from 52. In terms of quantity of DNA in
those samples, I would have to go back into the case folder and look at
the amounts and give you--to give you a good estimate.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. In any event, it would be greater than the remaining
samples, 47 through 50, that would have to be transferred in the
hypothetical? I'm referring to the quality and quantity of DNA.

*DR. COTTON:* In terms of the quantity, are you saying is that different
for 52 than the others?

*MR. CLARKE:* Correct. What you are able to actually detect.

*DR. COTTON:* In terms of what you can detect, yes. In terms of actual
mass amount, it may not be any different.

*MR. CLARKE:* In other words, the actual size of what was on the swatch?

*DR. COTTON:* The actual weight, that is of the DNA that you have, which
is measured in terms of nanograms, it could be a similar amount in 49
and 50, for example. It's just that it's very degraded and the other is not.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Now I would like to turn your attention to item no.
56, the shoeprint that's also listed on this particular Bundy crime
scene results board. As far as that particular item is concerned, is
there any indication whatsoever of cross-contamination similar to that
on 47, 48, 49, 50 and 52 in terms of DNA type?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why? What's the difference?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, the other--47, 48, 49 and 50 are consistent in type
with Mr. Simpson. 56 is consistent in type with Nicole Brown. So if all
of those samples were contaminated, they couldn't have all been
contaminated from the same source.

*MR. CLARKE:* Because the types are different; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And in fact, at least one of them--let's take the DQ-Alpha
alleles. Is it true that there is one DQ-Alpha type that's not even
present in item no. 56, the shoeprint?

*DR. COTTON:* You mean that is present in the other samples--

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And what's that?

*DR. COTTON:* It's the 1.2 allele.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, with regard to this hypothetical--and first of
all--well, let me rephrase that question. With regard to this
hypothetical, do these unstained controls play any role in determining
whether or not this type of transfer could have occurred?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, they would if they were out and about at the same
time that you're postulating the other contamination occurred because
they don't have any DNA on them, the ones that we tested.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Let me put it in a form--I'm sorry. I
interrupted you.

*DR. COTTON:* I'm finished.

*MR. CLARKE:* Let me put it in the form of a hypothetical to you. If
those unstained controls--and let's assume there are unstained controls
for these various items of evidence, 47, et cetera--and that those were
processed in the same manner as the bloodstains, would those unstained
controls in terms of if they detected no DNA, typeable DNA, provide you
any information about whether or not this hypothetical
cross-contamination transfer actually occurred?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Basis?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, part of the objection is the "et cetera." I mean,
maybe he should spell out which samples he's referring to.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Instead of that et cetera, 47, 48, 49, 50 and
52. Do the unstained controls provide you any further information if
what I described to you is the case?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* If the unstained controls were processed in the same
manner at the same time as the actual samples, then you would have to
postulate that the contamination only occurred on the actual samples and
didn't occur on the unstained controls. So it would be a very specific
contamination, not just sort of affecting everything.

*MR. CLARKE:* And by "processed at the same time," do you mean
collected, allowed to dry, repackaged, et cetera?

*DR. COTTON:* That's--yes, I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* That's the second time I've used the word "et cetera." But
through those stages that I just described including packaging?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do these unstained controls in this case represent or are
they an additional safeguard as to the accuracy of DNA results in this case?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. No foundation for this witness.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* The unstained controls tell you one thing. That is, that
there was no DNA on a spot adjacent to where the stain was lifted from.
I don't think they say anything beyond that.

*MR. CLARKE:* Are these unstained controls, are they to show the
presence or absence of bacteria? Is that what you use them for, for
instance?

*DR. COTTON:* No. We don't have--I suppose you could test for the
presence of bacteria on those unstained controls. We don't--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Move to strike, "suppose," because she's
speculating at this point.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* We don't have the capability in our lab of doing that.

*MR. CLARKE:* Incidentally, in your laboratory, in the controls that you
tested, that included item no. 49, that is an actual unstained substrate
control for one of the Bundy walk stains, no. 49?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Inconsistent with the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Can I check my book?

*MR. CLARKE:* Sure. Please do.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*THE COURT:* There's no designation of 49-C though as I recollect.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* There's no designation of 49-C.

*DR. COTTON:* We received a sample, was labeled item no. 49. It was sent
to us with other samples that were indicated that they were unstained
controls. It didn't have "C" or control written after it.

*MR. CLARKE:* And did you test that particular item for its DNA content?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection, your Honor. Misstates the evidence. Can I have
a sidebar?

*THE COURT:* Overruled. No.

*MR. CLARKE:* With what result?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, it didn't produce any type.

*MR. CLARKE:* And when you say "No DNA type," what do you mean?

*DR. COTTON:* We got no detectable typeable DNA from that sample.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, you also tested other unstained controls; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* What Los Angeles Police Department item numbers were those?

*DR. COTTON:* Item 7 control, item 12 control, item 49, doesn't say
control after it, item 56, doesn't say control after it.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Move to strike the earlier testimony as to 49, a control.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. CLARKE:* With what results for the other three? You're already
described 49.

*DR. COTTON:* No detectable, no typeable, DNA was present.

*MR. CLARKE:* Are you aware that any other unstained controls were
tested by any other laboratories in this case?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, I would like to offer you a hypothetical.
That if in fact, with regard to these particular items at the crime
scene, that is the Bundy crime scene--actually, let me rephrase that.

*MR. CLARKE:* May I have just a moment, your Honor?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, I would like you to assume that with respect
to this particular results board, the Bundy results board, that with
regard to each of the items, except for purposes of this question, 84-A
and 84-B, that there was an unstained control seized for each of those
particular items. All right?

*DR. COTTON:* Okay.

*MR. CLARKE:* That the results of those unstained controls showed no
detectable DNA present. All right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Does that information assist you in reaching any opinion
about whether or not the cross-contamination possibility posed by
Defense counsel occurred in this case?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Improper hypothetical. I move to strike.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I would like to shift your attention if I could,
Dr. Cotton, to questions posed to you about the possibility of a blood
tube, that is a tube containing known DNA, could have been spilled or
placed or inadvertently mixed with the same swatches, that is from items
47 through 52, the Bundy walkway stains. Do you recall those questions?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* For that to have occurred and for you to have obtained the
types that you described, again would the DNA in these various walkway
stains have to degrade so that you could detect no DNA? Actually let me
rephrase that. Be able to detect no DNA types.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Would it also be correct for that hypothetical to be true
that you would then obtain only the DNA types from this spilled or
otherwise contaminated tube blood?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* If this occurred, that is, these spills or placement from
a tube, would you expect these particular swatches from 47 through 52 to
have the same quantity--let me rephrase that--to have the same quality DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* There would be a reasonable expectation that if that
occurred, they would have close to the same quality of DNA.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I could think of two scenarios. One is, the blood
gets on there, it dries, and once it's dried, nothing much happens to it
in terms of degradation, in which case you would expect to have the same
quality of DNA. The only way I can postulate that that wouldn't be the
case would be, the blood gets on the swatches and it doesn't dry very
rapidly, and, therefore, something that's already on the swatch then
differentially degrades the DNA on one swatch as compared to another;
and in that case, you wouldn't obviously expect that they would all be
the same.

*MR. CLARKE:* Did you see, in terms of these stains, the same quality of
DNA, this is again the walkway stains, 47 through 52, or did you see
differences in quality of DNA?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection as to the word "see" with respect to the
quality of DNA.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. CLARKE:* Did you detect or did you determine if the DNA quality
from these swatches, 47 through 52, was the same or was it different?

*DR. COTTON:* It's different.

*MR. CLARKE:* How? What were the differences?

*DR. COTTON:* You can see the differences on the mini gel in terms of
how degraded the DNA is in those different samples.

*MR. CLARKE:* Was there a difference--and let's--you know, if this would
help you, let's take 47 and 48. Were there differences between those
two, or if there's a better way of describing this difference, please
tell us how.

*DR. COTTON:* If you want me to be more precise about it, you'll need to
let me get out the pictures so that I can look at them.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. If you would.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* Okay. We'll give this a try.

*MR. CLARKE:* Could you start with item 47 and tell us what would be the
easiest way to make this comparison between that first walkway stain by
the victims and the remainder?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I'll go down item by item and sort of try to give
you the level of degradation that we can see on the mini gel versus sort
of like not very much, a moderate amount or a lot.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay.

*DR. COTTON:* You have to keep in mind that this mini gel isn't
assessing human DNA, it's assessing total DNA, and, therefore,
there's--you know, I can only tell you what I can see. I can't tell you
anything about whether what I'm--based on this result alone, as to what
I'm seeing is human or not. Okay. Item 47--and again, I'm taking a
minute because I have to translate numbers here and also count. Item 47
is very degraded. Item--item 49 and 50 are very degraded. Item 56--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. That's nonresponsive. It's only limited to the
drops I believe.

*DR. COTTON:* What's the--am I just--

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I'm sorry. Sustained. Correct. It's not one of
the blood drops.

*MR. CLARKE:* Actually what I am going to ask permission to do, your
Honor, is to display to the jury just briefly the photographs of each of
these items and ask the witness to describe what they mean as far as
this opinion.

*THE COURT:* You mean the photographs of the actual spots at the crime
scene?

*MR. CLARKE:* No. Photographs of the actual test results from
determining how much DNA is present.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Can we do that, first of all, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* We can if you'll give me just a second to pull out
the--what I have to do is give you the originals and then pull out the
sheets from my copies that will tell me what samples in what lane.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, an additional objection based on her
testimony that a lot of it isn't even human DNA--

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, excuse me, your Honor. I believe--

*THE COURT:* Speaking objection.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Sorry. May we have a--may we have a sidebar then, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* No. Proceed.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorney
and the witness.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Do you want to show those to Mr. Neufeld as well?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* First of all, Dr. Cotton, do you have copies of these
photographs?

*DR. COTTON:* With me?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Could we, your Honor, for purposes of this
utilize the originals and obtain copies and at some point substitute
them? These are I believe--

*MR. CLARKE:* Are these photographs from your original raw notes?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's go with the originals today.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorney
and Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Dr. Cotton, you have given me two pages.
Which one would show--that is, which page and which photograph would
demonstrate item no. 47, the first drop?

*DR. COTTON:* This one (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* The lower photo on a page labeled at the top August 1, `94
or 8-1-94?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* I believe that would be 263, your Honor, referring to the
photograph?

*THE COURT:* All right. People's 263.

/(Peo's 263 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, showing you a photograph that's now on the
screen that will be People's exhibit 263, what's that a photograph of?

*DR. COTTON:* It's a photograph of the small mini gel that was used to
look at the DNA that was extracted from the samples that were loaded on
there.

*MR. CLARKE:* If I give you the pointing arrow and give you the podium,
can you describe for the jury, please, what particular lane we're
looking at? And then I'll have you describe what this process actually
shows.

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. CLARKE:* First of all, Dr. Cotton, with regard to this photograph,
what would you call this photograph? What's it of?

*DR. COTTON:* It's a photograph of the mini gel using the DNA samples
before they were digested with the restriction enzyme.

*MR. CLARKE:* And what's this mini gel process? What do you use it for?

*DR. COTTON:* For looking at how degraded the sample DNA is.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do you ultimately use photography to be able to later
review those results?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, is there a way that you can show us--and let's start
with--I'm sorry--item no. 47, the first walkway drop. Can you indicate
where you would look for results on this photograph?

*DR. COTTON:* Are we on here? The top of the gel is up here (Indicating)
And you see--see--the best place you can--see right here, that little
inden--that's an indentation where the sample is loaded and so is this
and so is this. And you can't see them quite as well over here, but they
go all across the top. So the person who did the work recorded what
sample she loaded in this lane and what sample she loaded in this one
and this one and so on. And so based on looking at the notes, when
you're asking me about a particular item, looking at the notes and
seeing in which lane that item was put into the mini gel.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, incidentally, is this one of these x-rays or autorads
that you had shown to the jury last week?

*DR. COTTON:* No. This is actually a photograph of this small gel, which
is about two inches by three inches, and the gel is sort of opaque and
you can see the edge of it right here (Indicating), this black--this was
a full-size picture, that is, it had a lot of extra nothing out here,
black, because this gel is laid on a light box, but instead of the white
light that you see on the light boxes that have been used so far, it's
an ultraviolet box. And because the DNA has been stained with a dye, if
you were to look at this in color, the places where you see DNA sort of
appear a pinkish orange and the gel has this sort of opaque look and
then to--before it's put in the case folder, the gel is just trimmed out
and the rest of the picture that doesn't contain a gel or anything else
is just thrown away.

*MR. CLARKE:* How do you read this particular photograph to determine
approximately how much and what quality of DNA is present in a sample?

*DR. COTTON:* The photograph is--you can look at it and think about it
just in exactly the same way that you think about the DNA on the
autoradiograph. The DNA was put into a sample well up here and it moved
down in this direction through the gel (Indicating), and these are three
controls that are on the gel. This is the same lambda that's loaded on
the large gel that we produced the x-ray film from. So this is a hundred
nanograms of lambda and this is 50 and this is 25, and it has the same
bands that you would see. And the reason this is on there is that we
know the size of this top band is 23,000 base pairs; and what we're
looking for is if DNA is in good condition, it will be up here because
the pieces will be very, very large. As the DNA is more degraded, then
you'll begin to see DNA down here (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* Why is that?

*DR. COTTON:* Because as it gets more degraded, the pieces are randomly
broken up and all of the pieces get smaller and smaller and smaller. So
you can see that the DNA in these lanes--and what you're looking at now
is this--this--if you were looking at it on a light box, it would be
coloration. Here it just appears white because this is a black and white
picture. So you're looking at the distribution of the stain DNA from the
top to the bottom of the gel. And if you see it all along, then you have
some degradation here. To give you an example, this sample right here,
whatever it happens to be (Indicating), does not appear to be very
degraded at all. It looks very, very good.

*MR. CLARKE:* Let's take the three, and I believe you described them all
as lambda markers, the far right-hand three lanes that have a series of
bands in each one?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Those are controls in this test?

*DR. COTTON:* They're controls just to say your gel ran as it should and
to give us a sense of--of amounts of DNA, although this is not a real
quantitative control. Some other laboratories use a cer--a known amount
of human DNA in these positions instead of this lambda, and that
actually works a little more nicely in terms of quantitation.

*MR. CLARKE:* Let's go left to right if we can and let's just go to the
first lane on the first left. Can you show us where that is?

*DR. COTTON:* Right here (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, what's in that lane in this test?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, item 78.

*MR. CLARKE:* And that would be the boot drop; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Right. Obviously it's the DNA from item 78.

*MR. CLARKE:* What kind of condition was that DNA in?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, it looks pretty good. There's not a lot of it, but I
see DNA here and I see a little bit of a smear coming down (Indicating),
but it looks like it would be good enough to load on an RFLP gel.

*MR. CLARKE:* In other words, from this result, in terms of the relative
quality of the DNA, it appeared that an RFLP test might produce results?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And was that decision in fact made as to the boot drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And that produced the RFLP results that you described last
week; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. CLARKE:* What's in the next lane?

*DR. COTTON:* The next lane over is item 56.

*MR. CLARKE:* That's the shoeprint?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And I believe last week, you described that from this
evaluation or mini gel or yield gel--first of all, are those all terms
used--

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* --to describe this photograph and these results?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* You described that it appeared that that would be enough
DNA to be able to obtain a DN--I'm sorry--an RFLP result.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. It certainly looked like it because you see there's a
lot right here (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* And that turned out not to be true because of the
condition of the DNA, that is what type of DNA itself it was; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* It turned out not to be true, and we're now making a
judgment call that it wasn't true because the DNA that we're seeing is
not human. If this were human DNA, we would have seen a very nice RFLP
pattern.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, going to the next lane, can you point where that is?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Right here (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* What was in that lane?

*DR. COTTON:* This is item 52.

*MR. CLARKE:* Item 52 was the last blood drop out on the driveway area
at Bundy?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* What did this result tell you about that blood drop?

*DR. COTTON:* There's some DNA in this high molecular weight area. But
you can see if you follow this down that there is some DNA that's all
the way down in here (Indicating). So this sample is degraded. And if
you only had this to look at--I mean now we know that it did give an
RFLP pattern, but at the time that we looked at this, the assessment was
it might, it might not. So we loaded it, but we didn't know if it would
give us a result.

*MR. CLARKE:* You have described earlier, and I believe as to three of
the drops in this trail, that the DNA was very degraded when I asked you
on the witness stand?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* How would you characterize the result or the condition
rather of the DNA with regard to 52, that blood drop in the driveway?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, sort of a medium amount of degradation.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. What's the next lane over to the right?

*DR. COTTON:* Next lane is item 7 from Rockingham.

*MR. CLARKE:* In the Rockingham driveway drop?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* One of them?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. And since we're going to stick to the Bundy scene
for the moment, what about the next lane over?

*DR. COTTON:* The next lane over is 47.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, tell us about 47 and what you see there.

*DR. COTTON:* What you see here is that there is no DNA that's visible
in this upper area (Indicating). So from that, you would assume that you
are not going to get an RFLP pattern from this particular sample. You
can see some DNA down here. See this smear that starts about--little
more than halfway down and goes all to the--all the way to the bottom
(Indicating). If that's human DNA, that's probably going to be good
enough to give a PCR result.

*MR. CLARKE:* And that's in fact the technology you use to type that
particular item?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And for the moment, what is in the next lane?

*DR. COTTON:* The next lane is item 12.

*MR. CLARKE:* And that was the Rockingham foyer?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And what result in terms of the presence of DNA can you
determine from this particular test?

*DR. COTTON:* You can see a lot of DNA right at the top, a little bit of
degradation in here (Indicating), but not a lot. And assuming that this
is human DNA, you would expect that it would give you a very nice RFLP
pattern.

*MR. CLARKE:* And did it do so when you conducted your RFLP typing?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it did.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, incidentally, before we move on, Dr. Cotton, this
particular test, these--that ultimately you received the photographs
from, this yield gel--I believe you used that term?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* That's done after you actually extract the DNA in your
laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And these were all extractions that your laboratory did of
DNA from the actual swatches sent to you from Los Angeles?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Now, could we move on to--what would be the next
photograph, to go to the same page that's currently--

*DR. COTTON:* No. The other page.

*MR. CLARKE:* The other page? All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* And, your Honor, could this photograph be marked as
People's exhibit 264?

*THE COURT:* 264.

/(Peo's 264 for id = photograph)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Dr. Cotton, do you have that second page or do I?

*DR. COTTON:* I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Thank you.

*MR. CLARKE:* And, your Honor, may this photograph also be placed on the
elmo?

*THE COURT:* Yes. Have you shown that to Mr. Neufeld?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, Dr. Cotton, is this another yield gel?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And does it show results as to any of these samples taken
at the Bundy crime scene?

*DR. COTTON:* This one has the samples from 49 and 50.

*MR. CLARKE:* Could you point those out to us?

*DR. COTTON:* These are the same controls I just mentioned. 49 was in
this lane and 50 was in this lane (Indicating).

*MR. CLARKE:* Let's start--and again, first of all, were these samples
run in your laboratory on a yield gel after your laboratory extracted
DNA from these original swatches?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* With what results? Could you show them and describe them,
please?

*DR. COTTON:* Both these samples are degraded to about the same extent.
You have to look way down here at the bottom, and you see a smear of DNA
here and you see a smear of DNA here and you see nothing up in this
range here (Indicating). These two samples clearly are not good enough
for RFLP testing.

*MR. CLARKE:* And were they then tested using the PCR method?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* With the results that you described last week?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, amongst these--first of all, have we now shown each
of 47 through 50 and 52, each of the blood drops?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Then perhaps, your Honor, we can remove or ask
the witness to retake the stand and I'll ask her further questions.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Now, having shown these five samples, 47, 48, 49, 50 and
52, were you or can you summarize any differences in their relative
amounts of DNA as revealed by these yield gels?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, objection. Asked and answered. That was the
question immediately before this.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* You can get a general idea from the gels that the amounts
of DNA are pretty much in the same ballpark with the exception of 56.
But again, because this isn't a measure of human DNA, this isn't a very
good place to try to get quantitation as to a precise amount.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Let's turn to human DNA then with regard to these
samples. What can you describe about that?

*DR. COTTON:* That determination was made on a slot blot and that's
another page of notes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Is there a way that you can describe those results
for us from these various items, 47 through 50 and 52?

*DR. COTTON:* From the slot blot?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Can we address these in order? That might be easier
to follow. For instance, item no. 47?

*DR. COTTON:* It's easier for you.

*MR. CLARKE:* Would it be easier for you in a different order?

*DR. COTTON:* Yeah.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Let's start with the one that's easiest to get to then.

*DR. COTTON:* Uh--

*THE COURT:* Why don't you pull the microphone closer.

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, sorry. This quantitation is done from the PCR
extraction, and the various amounts of DNA--what kind of answer are you
looking for? Do you want nanograms or do you want like thoughts and not
so much--

*MR. CLARKE:* What would be the easiest way to describe any relative
differences between these five drops?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I can tell you which ones had the most, which had a
middle amount and which had nothing that we could detect.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Why don't you do that.

*DR. COTTON:* Okay. The samples that had the most DNA were 50 and item
52. The samples that had moderate amounts were 49 and 12, which I know
wasn't--that's not on the--

*MR. CLARKE:* 12 was from the Rockingham residence, right?

*DR. COTTON:* Right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay.

*DR. COTTON:* And then the samples that had no detectable DNA on here,
which doesn't mean they don't have any, but it just means we're not
detecting it, would be 56--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection as to 56.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*DR. COTTON:* Oh, okay.

*MR. CLARKE:* I believe you described 49, 50 and 52 thus far. Can you
describe for us 47 and 48?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. 47 had no detectable, and for item 48, I think I have
to go to another--I think I have to go to another film. Where can I find
that? I have to go--I think I have to go to another film.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Is that something that you can retrieve from
your folder?

*DR. COTTON:* I can, but I have to go back and figure out what sample
number of mine it is.

*MR. CLARKE:* You're looking for item no. 48; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Would that be your item 12?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. And 12 also had no detectable DNA.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Was that--when you say 12, what LAPD item--

*DR. COTTON:* That's my item 12, your no. 48.

*MR. CLARKE:* You described Los Angeles Police Department item no. 12,
the Rockingham foyer, as having a moderate amount of DNA; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* In my scenario, I think it was a moderate amount. You're
right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Before we move on to a different area, are these
differences that you've described amongst 47 through 52 consistent or
inconsistent with cross-crontom--I'm sorry--cross-contamination transfer
of DNA as posed by Mr. Neufeld in his hypothetical?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. No foundation. It's pure speculation at this
point.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* Does the relative amounts--well, let me rephrase that. Do
these results of the relative amounts of human DNA differ among these
samples along the walkway drops?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Does that tell you anything or does that lead you to any
opinions or conclusions about whether or not that DNA was transferred
from other evidence items as opposed to being DNA collected in the
locations as described?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection again. No foundation, pure speculation.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. CLARKE:* Can I have just a moment?

*THE COURT:* Sure.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, based on these differing levels of DNA in
these various items, does that lead you to any opinion about whether or
not the DNA detected in your testing is from material collected at a
crime scene versus material transferred from stains during evidence
processing?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. No foundation. Purely speculation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* It looks to me like--if it was a transfer, it would have
had to been subsequently affected by the swatch it was transferred to.
Otherwise, you have to--you have to postulate that it was--if it was a
transfer, it wasn't from the same thing, it wasn't all from the same
tube of blood or all from the same swatch because they're all different.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Move to strike, your Honor, that answer.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I'm going to shift topics, Dr. Cotton, if I could.
You were asked a number of questions about packaging evidence items. Do
you recall that?

*THE COURT:* And I sustained most of the objections to those questions.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right.

*DR. COTTON:* Vaguely.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm not sure if I want to ask the next question or not.

*THE COURT:* Let your conscience be your guide.

*MR. CLARKE:* Let's turn to plastic bags. Do plastic bags play any role
in preventing cross-contamination?

*DR. COTTON:* Of course they would.

*MR. CLARKE:* How?

*DR. COTTON:* You have one sample in a plastic bag and you have another
sample in another plastic bag, it would be hard to get material from one
sample onto the next sample.

*MR. CLARKE:* When you discussed--and you were asked a few questions
just this morning--may have been this afternoon, but I think it was this
morning--about DNA, when you're talking about a bloodstain, is looking
at or actually detects DNA that's contained in white blood cells; is
that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* DNA is not contained in red blood cells?

*DR. COTTON:* That's correct.

*MR. CLARKE:* You were also asked about some conventional serology
techniques that type proteins such as--and I believe the slide actually
had EAP on it; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Where does that protein obtain from in a bloodstain? Is it
the white blood cells or something different?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, for EAP, it's red--I believe it's red blood cells.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, let's take--so it's different. In other words--

*DR. COTTON:* It's a different cell type.

*MR. CLARKE:* Red blood cells versus white blood cells for DNA; is that
right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* In a bloodstain--and let's just take a bloodstain left at
a crime scene--do the red blood cells go to some different location than
the white blood cells or are they mixed?

*DR. COTTON:* They're all mixed.

*MR. CLARKE:* In other words, are they all floating around until a piece
of blood is deposited on a surface?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* What happens to the cells at that point, once a bloodstain
is--I'm sorry--a blood drop is left on a surface of any kind?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't--I don't know how to answer that question.

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, let me focus it in a little bit if I can. Is it the
case that those cells, white versus red, go to different locations in
the blood stain or do they stay mixed?

*DR. COTTON:* The blood is a mixture of cells and proteins and other
things. I think for most practical purposes, you can think of it as a
homogenous mixture, so that when the blood is deposited, it would still
stay a mixture. I mean cells are very tiny. You know, they're just going
to be distributed in the bloodstain, white and red together.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I'm going to shift your attention again to just
briefly about evidence that you received from the Los Angeles Police
Department. Did you receive any extracted DNA from the LAPD?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* You received only evidence items themselves in the form of
swatches, bloodstain swatches or unstained controls as well as known
samples; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* From LAPD, yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Where did you get any extracted DNA from?

*DR. COTTON:* California Department of Justice lab.

*MR. CLARKE:* As far as all of the Los Angeles Police Department
evidence items, were all of the extractions done in your laboratory that
were received by your laboratory, the evidence items?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, I would like to turn your attention if I could to a
particular control that was described earlier today in the course of
your PCR testing wherein there were some detectable DNA types. Do you
recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. CLARKE:* First of all, that control--well, what kind of control was it?

*DR. COTTON:* It was a reagent blank control.

*MR. CLARKE:* And that's one of the controls you used to ensure that the
test worked probably in a PCR test, right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Can you tell us what evidence item number or numbers that
particular control was a part of that same test?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. And I may have made an error this morning. Umm--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*DR. COTTON:* That reagent blank control was started with--shall I
just read the list?

*MR. CLARKE:* Well, first of all, what item--okay. How many--yes, if you
would. That's probably the best way.

*DR. COTTON:* Item 78, item 56, item 52, item 7, item 47, item 12. That
control was started with those items. It was processed through with
those items, and two of those items were also--two of those items didn't
give any amplified product and were concentrated. After the
concentration, one of them gave amplified product and the reagent blank
gave two faint dots and the sample that was concentrated and then gave
amplified product was item 56. And this morning, I think I was saying it
was item 7, and that is not correct.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, these two faint dots that you've just described, did
their existence affect the typing results of the items other than item
no. 56?

*DR. COTTON:* In our judgment, they did not affect the typing results
because--okay. Think of--you do the extraction and you start the
control. You bring it along and you type the samples and you type the
control. For those samples that typed at that point, the control did not
show any faint dots. And, therefore, we interpreted those samples. So
that was a judgment call on our part. Two of those samples were
then--going forward now, two of those samples were then concentrated and
one of them gave a type and the control gave two faint dots. They--so it
isn't that you have a whole type and the control, but you do have two
faint dots. We made a judgment to report those results because the dots
in the reagent blank were faint. Now, whether we type that sample again
at the point before it was concentrated--that is, when I say the sample,
I'm now referring to item 56--is something I'd have to look up because I
was getting confused this morning.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. With regard to the earlier samples, that control
showed no reactions whatsoever with DNA types; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* At the first time that it was run, the controls showed no
reaction. It did not show any reaction until it was put through the
microconcentrator.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Let's talk about why in your view is it appropriate
to type those, that is to report the results from all of those items
that were a part of that control when that control showed some faint DNA
detected when you concentrated it.

*DR. COTTON:* Let's take the worse scenario and assume that the
contamination was in that control from the beginning and also in the
sample from the beginning. If that contamination is so small as to not
produce a typeable result of any kind, whether or not it's there, it
can't have affected the results.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. As far as the later typing of item no. 56, why
is it appropriate to report the results when it in fact showed that
small or faint detectable level of DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* That's the question to give you the best answer. That's
what I was confused on, whether or not we typed that sample again, and
it might take me a minute to find that in the notes.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Do you think it would take long or would you
prefer to do it when you have more time?

*DR. COTTON:* Uh, I'd actually rather do it when I had more time if you
gave me a choice.

*MR. CLARKE:* With regard to the remainder of your tests, was there any
DNA detected in any of the other controls?

*DR. COTTON:* No, there wasn't.

*MR. CLARKE:* Well--

*DR. COTTON:* In the positive controls, there was. But in the negative
controls, there was no DNA depicted in any other negative control or any
other reagent blank control run alongside any other sample that we did.

*MR. CLARKE:* In other words, the remainder of the negative control
showed nothing as far as controls not expected to show DNA?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Incidentally. You were shown a portion of your laboratory
protocol today; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* And I believe you were asked about a specific page that
dealt with controls and decisions that are to be made based on, for
instance, a negative control failing?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* What is a failed control or control that failed? What does
that mean?

*DR. COTTON:* It's relatively vague. I mean, it's in the standard
operating procedure, but I have to admit that that's a
vague--basically--if you have any detectable DNA, you could say the
control--I don't like this word "The control failed." If you have
detectable DNA on that control, the control told you what you wanted it
to tell you. It told you you might have a problem. It also may be
telling you that you shouldn't interpret the results, that you should
call them inconclusive, that you should do it again or you should think
carefully before you give an interpretation.

*MR. CLARKE:* As far as that control--and I believe you had started to
describe earlier today about discretion in the laboratory; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* On that particular page of your protocol, is there a
provision giving Ph.D.s discretion to make certain decisions?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. We always--I mean, you would certainly want to do
that. There's no way you could write a standard operating procedure that
could describe every circumstance for every test that you could ever
get. So if you don't allow room to use your--your judgment in analysis,
then you wouldn't be giving the best possible analysis.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do you exercise that discretion as a result of your
education, training and experience as a DNA analyst?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, I do and the other lab staff that are involved in
the testing do as well.

*MR. CLARKE:* With regard to this particular re--negative control that
showed this faint DNA present, did you utilize your discretion to
determine that those results should be reported?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. CLARKE:* Incidentally, does your laboratory report results
according to who's paying for your services?

*DR. COTTON:* Of course not.

*MR. CLARKE:* In your laboratory, is there an approximate percentage of
number of cases in which, for instance, suspects are excluded?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* What is that approximate percentage?

*DR. COTTON:* The--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Irrelevant, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* The approximate percent of cases in which we have an
exclusion is about 30 percent.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. About what?

*DR. COTTON:* About 30 percent.

*MR. CLARKE:* What does that mean, when you report approximately 30
percent exclusions?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Beyond the scope of cross-examination.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Goes to credibility. You can answer the question.

*DR. COTTON:* It means that we've been asked to compare a victim or--let
me back up. It means we've been asked to compare a known sample with an
evidence sample. And if the known sample doesn't come from the evidence
sample, then they are excluded as being a contributor. So depending on
the nature of the evidence and the question that somebody else cares
about, that's--can be an important piece of information.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do you in your laboratory report results excluding certain
suspects and report those results to Prosecutors who have asked you to
do testing?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* You have described, Dr. Cotton, the fact that in your
laboratory, you don't test all genetic markers that are used in forensic
science. And let's take an RFLP test for example. Is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why is that?

*DR. COTTON:* We use five. We feel that that provides for the great
majority of cases a sufficient amount of information to--that additional
markers would sort of be like icing on the cake. Now, there are
circumstances where more is necessary, in which case you'd have to go to
another lab to get more. But for the most part, five markers or if you
did five markers and the PCR markers, you have a very good amount of
information there.

*MR. CLARKE:* For instance--and let's take item no. 52 as an example.
How many total genetic markers on that Bundy driveway stain did your
laboratory test at?

*DR. COTTON:* Five RFLP markers and six PCR markers.

*MR. CLARKE:* Or a total of 11 different genetic markers?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, if you could--and I'm going to shift to one
other area briefly. Could you tell us what LAPD evidence item numbers
your laboratory actually performed the extraction and then typing
process on? Can you list those for us?

*DR. COTTON:* Sure.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Could you do that, please?

*DR. COTTON:* What items we analyzed?

*MR. CLARKE:* Exactly. Using--no. Actually extracted the DNA and then
typed. In other words, you received an item of evidence, a swatch, and
then extracted the DNA and then typed it.

*THE COURT:* Haven't we already asked this question in a different way?

*MR. CLARKE:* I have in--I'm sorry. I have in total, but not by
individual item number. If I could, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*DR. COTTON:* The easiest way I guess for me to do that is to go through
the report or to, you know, move through the reports to do that.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay. Can we do that in relatively short order or not?

*DR. COTTON:* It should be easy.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, also object. This is beyond the scope too.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* As long as you don't want it in some special order.

*MR. CLARKE:* No. If you can just list us the numbers, that would be fine.

*DR. COTTON:* Shall I--shall I go ahead?

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* Item 49, item 50, the three blood exemplars which were
labeled to us as c-1, c-2 and c-3, item 7, 12, 49--sorry--7, 12, 47, 52,
56, 78. I think I already said 49 and 50.

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* 7. if I didn't already say 56, that's in there. If I
didn't already say 48, which I think I did, that's in there.

*MR. CLARKE:* Did you say item no. 48 also, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. And then the four unstained swatches, no. 7 control,
no. 12 control, number 49 and number 46.

*MR. CLARKE:* Your Honor, I'm going to repeat, if I may, in
chronological order what I believe to be those numbers. Would that be
acceptable to the Court?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* C-1--

*MR. CLARKE:* And please stop me if I have any of these incorrectly, Dr.
Cotton. The three knowns, c-1, c-2 and c-3?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Then items no. 7, 12, 47, 48, 49, 50, 52, 56, 78 and the
four unstained controls, 7, 12, 49 and 56.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Does that sound right?

*DR. COTTON:* That sounds right.

*MR. CLARKE:* And those were items that Cellmark actually extracted and
then typed?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Now, if I may, Dr. Cotton, I would like to turn your
attention to the area of population frequencies. All right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why is it that you can test and use in your databases,
say, 4- to 600 people and yet be able to make statements about rarity of
types that obviously are not only higher than 4- to 600, but are in the
millions or even billions?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Twofold, your Honor. One, first, facts that
are contrary to her testimony as to the size and, two, there's no
foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. CLARKE:* With regard to the number of individuals in your
databases, approximately how many are there total?

*DR. COTTON:* Somewhere around--somewhere around 5- to 600 total.

*MR. CLARKE:* You utilize those databases to create--not to create--to
report population frequency data; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. CLARKE:* And you've in fact done that in this case; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we have.

*MR. CLARKE:* As far as these RFLP results, several of them are in the
millions or even billions; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* How can you take numbers of 4- to 5- to 600 of people in
these databases and be able to determine estimates of frequency that are
numbers higher than 5- or 600? Do you understand my question?

*DR. COTTON:* I do. Let me give you several different pieces to that
answer. First of all, we are relying on work done by other scientists
knowledgeable about RFLP alleles; that is, how many of them there are to
give us some estimation, statistical estimation of how large a database
is needed.

*MR. NEUFELD:* As to that, your Honor, I move to strike as to the
hearsay representations of other people.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Secondly, the--keep in mind now it's impossible to test
everyone and it is actually relatively time-consuming to even test 5- or
600 people given that you can get about 15 people on one gel. You can
develop a sample size--a sample and make an estimate--make an estimation
from that sample. And, again, the critical word here is "estimation."
You could then go out and get another sample or another group to get
another sample. And if this were a legitimate thing to be doing, you
could say, does the distribution of frequencies, that is, how often I
see a band at 5,000 and how often I see one at 6- and the whole
distribution of how often you see a particular allele, does it look like
other samples from the same racial group from another part of the
country. It will not look the same, but it should look similar.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Objection, your Honor. Again, move to strike
as to other databases.

*THE COURT:* Speaking objection. Overruled. Ask another question.

*MR. CLARKE:* With regard to this process--and you've described now
looking at--I'm sorry--at other information?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. We do look at other information.

*MR. CLARKE:* What is that?

*DR. COTTON:* Some of the other information has come--well, it's come
from various sources. There's information about our probes and our
enzyme from a few sources in the United States, from many sources in
Europe. There is information that's been compiled for the FB--by the
FBI, a very large amount of information looking at a different
restriction enzyme, but--and a panel of probes, several of which overlap
with ours and several of which don't. The overall--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, again, I'm going to have to object as to no
discovery.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Proceed.

*MR. CLARKE:* You can continue, Dr. Cotton.

*THE COURT:* No. Ask another question. This is a narrative.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. You looked at other items and you described a
study by the FBI?

*DR. COTTON:* Say that again?

*MR. CLARKE:* You've described the fact that you looked at other
information. In particular, you were describing a study done by the FBI?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Is that a fairly large study?

*DR. COTTON:* It's very large.

*MR. CLARKE:* And what did it look at?

*DR. COTTON:* It looked at RFLP databases generated by various
laboratories across the country and made comparisons as to the
distribution of alleles from databases that were generated in various
places at the various racial groups.

*MR. CLARKE:* What's the significance of those findings as far as what I
asked you about, taking databases and then making estimations that are
in the millions or even billions?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Move to strike, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* What's the objection?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor, there's absolutely no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And also, no discovery.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* What it tells you is that if you take a rac--a database
from one part of the country for Caucasians, blacks or Hispanics and you
compare it to a database from some other part of the country and you
generated a profile frequency, that the frequencies are very, very
similar. There are not large differences in the samples from one part of
the country to the next.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Move to strike as to "similar," as to "they."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. CLARKE:* You have described using RFLP typing at five probes, for
instance, with regard to the Bundy stain, no. 52, and the boot drop, no. 78?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* When you make these estimations of frequency--and I
believe you touched a little bit on a concept called independence?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I did.

*MR. CLARKE:* And what is that again?

*DR. COTTON:* It means whether or not you inherit one allele that you
have is not--does not affect the second allele that you might get. That
is, if you inherit a band at 5,000 base pairs, that doesn't mean you'll
automatically or with some probability inherit on at 6,000. What you
inherit from one parent is what you inherit from the other.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why is that important?

*DR. COTTON:* Mathematically that's important because if that were not
the case, it would be improper to multiply the frequencies between the
different genetic locations.

*MR. CLARKE:* How do you--well, first of all, are these markers
independent that you've described in your testing in this case?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Beyond this witness'--well, no foundation for
this witness.

*THE COURT:* We've gone beyond. We've already covered this once before.
I know it was not directly touched upon in cross-examination.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* It was not directly touched upon in cross-examination.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right.

*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, do you have a database for each community of
the United States?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why not?

*DR. COTTON:* We'd have to have a lot bigger staff. It's not possible.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do you need a database for each community of the United
States to be able to estimate these frequencies?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Beyond--foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* Why?

*DR. COTTON:* For all the reasons that I just talked about in the last
several questions.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do those include, for instance, these studies that you've
described of groups of people in different parts of the United States
and the world?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Asked and answered and leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. CLARKE:* When you say--I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* It's leading.

*MR. CLARKE:* When you say the material that you have--I'm sorry. When
you say specifically for the reasons that you give earlier--given
earlier, can you tell us briefly what those reasons were?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. She's already told us what she's relied on.

*MR. CLARKE:* Okay.

*MR. CLARKE:* These frequencies that you've reported in this case, are
they accurate in terms of being precise or are they estimates?

*DR. COTTON:* They are estimates.

*MR. CLARKE:* These numbers that you've reported, do they tell anything
or do they have any relation whatsoever to the facts of this case? And
I'm talking about the facts other than DNA.

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. CLARKE:* Are they estimations only of what--of how common or how
rare the various DNA types are that you obtained in your testing in your
lab for all of the samples that you've described in your testimony?

*DR. COTTON:* They are only estimates, which give you a
conceptualization of how common or rare the collection of genetic
markers is.

*MR. CLARKE:* Do they in any manner take into account at all all of the
other facts of this case that show what happened in this case?

*DR. COTTON:* They don't take into account anything except saying is
this collection of genetic types common or rare or somewhere in between.
That is the only thing that those numbers tell you. They tell you
nothing else.

*MR. CLARKE:* All right. Your Honor, with the exception of the one area
the witness asked to have a little time to look up, I'm concluded with
my redirect at this time.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can I have five minutes? Then I will be able to conclude
the recross by the end of the day.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, why don't you step back
for a quick break, and we'll hopefully conclude this matter this afternoon.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors, please.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can I just have one moment, please? I'm just obtaining a
document.

*THE COURT:* All right. And, counsel, for your scheduling tomorrow, we
have a quit time of 4:00 o'clock due to a medical appointment for one of
the jurors.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Could we stay to 5:00 today?

*THE COURT:* Okay. We'll stay to 5:00 today. All right. Let's have the
jurors.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Dr. Cotton, why don't you retake the witness
stand. All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. All
right. Let the record reflect we've been rejoined by all the members of
our jury panel. Mr. Neufeld.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Thank you. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*_RECROSS-EXAMINATION MR_*_. *NEUFELD*_

__*MR. NEUFELD: *Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, on redirect examination, Mr. Clarke asked you
a series of questions concerning relative degradations if you will of
the different items or some of the different items involved in this case
that Cellmark analyzed. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And along with the drops purportedly collected at Bundy,
he also asked you about the--about item 78 and item 56. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, and I think you said as to item 78, that there
seemed to be a fair amount of high molecular weight DNA present; is that
correct?

*DR. COTTON:* I believe that's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. And--and these questions that were put to you
by Mr. Clarke were put to you in the context of showing the range of
degradation that occurred on these different samples. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. You're right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, are you aware, Dr. Cotton, of the fact that item 78
wasn't even processed by LAPD on either June 13th or June 14th?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I have--I don't know when it was processed by LAPD.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Would you agree as an expert that if in fact--in fact
item 78, as a collected swatch, didn't even arrive at the Los Angeles
Police Department on the days when they were initially processing these
items, would that change your opinion as to the--as to the consequences
of the variety of degradation on these samples?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Beyond the scope as to these items.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Well, if it wasn't processed at the same time, then all
the various hypotheticals about--that I was discussing wouldn't be
applicable because it wasn't even there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And also, you were asked about item 56. And, Dr. Cotton,
were you aware of the fact that when extractions of DNA samples were
done at LAPD on the 14th, that item 56 was not included in that group?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I--again, I don't know what was done at LAPD at any
particular day.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, again, doctor--

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. I think the witness was cut off. She may have
been finished.

*THE COURT:* I think she was finished.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I apologize, Dr. Cotton.

*DR. COTTON:* That's all I had to say.

*THE COURT:* But we're trying to finish.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, again, just as I asked you with regard to
item 78, assume hypothetically that item 56 was--did not go through the
extraction or the processing procedures for DNA typing that the Bundy
drops went through on the morning of the 14th. Again, would you draw
that same distinction, that those hypotheticals wouldn't apply?

*MR. CLARKE:* Same objection. Beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I would.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I think the one thing that you did say on redirect
examination is that all those samples that purportedly originate from
the Bundy walkway were either very degraded or moderately degraded; is
that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you had mentioned by the way that--I'm sorry.
Withdrawn. On cross-examination, initially, you did say that the one
table that you could rely on in the NRC report was the table 1-1, which
dealt with the DNA content of biological samples. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that in that table in
the NRC report, it states that the amount of DNA present in a milliliter
of blood is somewhere between 20--

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Excuse me. Hearsay, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Exceeds the scope of the redirect.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Your Honor--

*THE COURT:* The question has to be directed toward the amount of DNA
present in degraded samples. That was what was asked on the redirect.

*MR. NEUFELD:* That's what I am going to, but this is a preliminary
foundation question--

*THE COURT:* Keep going.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can I ask that question then?

*THE COURT:* Rephrase the question.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And doesn't the table state, Dr. Cotton--

*MR. CLARKE:* Again, objection. Hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. NEUFELD:* --Dr. Cotton, that there are approximately 20,000 to
40,000 nanograms of DNA in a milliliter of blood?

*DR. COTTON:* That's my recollection, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And are you aware, Dr. Cotton, that there are
approximately 20 drops of blood in a milliliter of blood?

*DR. COTTON:* No. Drops aren't too good in terms of quantitation.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, are you--are you--would you agree that as a rough
estimate, that there are approximately 20 drops of blood in a milliliter
of blood?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't really--I don't really know. And when you're--when
you're using something, the--the opening of that instrument, like you
have a pipetter tip with a big opening versus a little opening, you have
different size drops. So I would rather work in some other quantitative
sense than--than drops.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Have you reviewed any literature which suggested that
there were approximately 20 drops of blood in a milliliter of blood?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, if I ever have, I wouldn't remember now. So I'm sorry.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can you estimate based on your own experience
approximately how many nanograms of blood--excuse me--how many nanograms
of DNA are in a drop of blood, an average drop of blood?

*DR. COTTON:* No.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Can you give a range?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, if I got--not easily.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Well, to the best of your ability, doctor, what would
that range be?

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think I can give you a range given that I'm--what
I'm telling you is that I don't really know what the volume is in a drop
and, therefore, I'm hesitant to try to carry that any further.

*MR. NEUFELD:* All right. Dr. Cotton, but you would agree that at least
as to all these samples from the Bundy walkway, they are either
experienced moderate or extreme degrees of degradation; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And you can not tell, Dr. Cotton, when you look at the
yield gel or the slot blot as to whether the degraded or the remaining
DNA that you see is there because it's from the original source or it's
there as a result of cross-contamination; isn't that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's correct.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I believe you also said, Dr. Cotton, that the role that
the plastic bags play in preventing cross-contamination is that
obviously if a sample is in one plastic bag and another sample is in a
second plastic bag, that they're not going to cross-contaminate while in
that status; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* But would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that once the samples
are removed from the plastic bags, the plastic bags are no longer a
deterrent to cross-contamination? Isn't that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's of course right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, when you're referring to the reagent
blank control, lighting up two DNA dots in this particular case, I
believe you said that there's some discretion left to the Ph.D.s in the
laboratory to decide whether or not to retest; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Or to report or to do some other options that might be
available.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Isn't it a fact, Dr. Cotton, that the protocol states
that when the results--I'm sorry--that when a questionable result is
reported, that it's to be interpreted by the Ph.D.s in the laboratory?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that with respect to the
presence of those two dots, those two DNA dots on the reagent blank,
their presence on those reagent blanks was not questioned?

*MR. CLARKE:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* No. It's obviously there. I mean it was recorded by the
analyst who read the strips. And if I remember correctly, you can just
barely see it in the photos, but you can see it. So it's clearly there.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And it was clearly there by both analysts who reviewed
that data, correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, you were also talking about how your
database has approximately 600 people in it; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* If you add up all the three racial groups--you know,
taking into account you don't have the same number of people in each
probe, it's I think between 5- and 600.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And your database includes five different genetic loci,
is that right, for the RFLPs?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, it does.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I asked you, if you recall, on cross-examination
initially if you could find out for us as to how many people in that
African American database you actually ran all five genetic markers on.
Do you recall me asking that question?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And I believe you said you could find that out overnight;
is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* That's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, how many members of your African
American database have been subjected to all five genetic loci in this case?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, somebody took the sheet from me.

*MR. NEUFELD:* I'm sorry.

*DR. COTTON:* It's not very many.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Is it two?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Of all the blacks, there are only two that are across
all five.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Two people in the entire African-American database have
been subjected to all five loci in your laboratory; is that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Well, that's true. It's--

*MR. NEUFELD:* Now, Dr.--

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Could the witness finish the answer, please?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*DR. COTTON:* I don't think that's a critical feature.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. Dr. Cotton, you gave an answer before on the
subject of--of the assumption of independence of these different genetic
traits. Do you recall that?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, I do.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that that issue, okay,
as to that assumption of independence is a question that arises in the
or was in the province of population geneticists?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, do you consider yourself an expert in
the field of population genetics?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I'm certainly not an academics expert in the field of
population genetics. I know a lot about it as it pertains to forensic
DNA typing, but there's much more to know beyond what I know.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so you wouldn't consider yourself an expert in that
field?

*DR. COTTON:* No. I don't think so.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And, Dr. Cotton, you said at the very close of the
redirect examination that these statistics that you put up on the board
only tell you about the rarity of a particular profile; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. That's what I said.

*MR. NEUFELD:* And so would you agree, Dr. Cotton, that those statistics
tell you nothing about the probability of a false positive at LAPD?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes. Of course that's right.

*MR. NEUFELD:* No further questions. One second.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. NEUFELD:* No further questions, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Clarke.

*MR. CLARKE:* Yes. Thank you, your Honor. One topic.

*THE COURT:* Okay. If you have to.

*_FURTHER REDIRECT EXAMINATION BY MR. CLARKE_*__

__*MR. CLARKE:* Dr. Cotton, with regard to these five probes, do you
need all five probes run on the same people in your database to create
these estimates of frequencies of these various characteristics?

*DR. COTTON:* You do not need to have all five probes on all the people
in order to create these estimates. For statistical purposes of
independence, when tests are done for independence for RFLP testing,
those tests are generally done for pairs of loci. So you need pairs of
people that have been done on two at a minimum, and this database has
those pairs. It isn't that more information can't be gained if you have
people across all five loci, but we do have enough information as a
database exists for those tests of independence to be done.

*MR. CLARKE:* Has or have your five probes been looked at for purposes
of determining if they are independent from one another?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, they have.

*MR. CLARKE:* And has that exhibit been published in the scientific
literature?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection. Hearsay and discovery.

*THE COURT:* All right. The fact that it's been published isn't hearsay.
What it says is hearsay. Proceed.

*MR. CLARKE:* I'm sorry. Was the answer yes, Dr. Cotton?

*DR. COTTON:* It has been published.

*MR. CLARKE:* And was that publication an examination of your database
and a determination of independence of these five probes?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*DR. COTTON:* Yes.

*MR. CLARKE:* Who published that?

*DR. COTTON:* Dr. Bruce weir from North Carolina State University.

*MR. CLARKE:* Has there been any publication to your knowledge
demonstrating that your five genetic markers are not independent of one
another?

*DR. COTTON:* No, there has not.

*MR. CLARKE:* Thank you, your Honor.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*_FURTHER RECROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. NEUFELD_*

*__MR. NEUFELD:* Dr. Cotton, recognizing but in this case, when you
calculated the frequency of the rarity of Mr. Simpson's genetic profile,
you did rely on all five loci; is that correct?

*DR. COTTON:* Yes, we did.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Okay. And so as to the all--as to the entire--whoops.
Excuse me. And so in your database, the number of people that you have
typed like Mr. Simpson across all five loci were just two people; isn't
that right?

*DR. COTTON:* Across all five, yes.

*MR. NEUFELD:* Yes. No further questions.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take our
recess for the evening at this time. Please remember all of my
admonitions to you; do not discuss the case amongst yourselves, do not
form any opinions about the case, do not allow anybody to communicate
with you, don't conduct any deliberations until the matter has been
submitted to you. As far as the jury is concerned, we'll stand in recess
until tomorrow morning at 9:00 o'clock. And, Dr. Cotton, you may step
down. As soon as we clear the jury, we'll have a few discussions about
plans for tomorrow. All right. Actually I'll see counsel in chambers
about that.

/(At 4:40 P.M., an adjournment was taken until, Tuesday, May 16, 1995,
9:00 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California,)

Plaintiff,)

Vs. ) No. Ba097211)

Orenthal James Simpson,)

Defendant.)

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Monday, May 15, 1995

Volume 146 pages 27357 through 27612, inclusive appearances: (See page 2)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*APPEARANCES:*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*FOR THE PEOPLE:* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*FOR THE DEFENDANT:* Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan, Esquire
2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California 90067
Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire Shawn
Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los Angeles,
California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian, Esquire
Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck, Esquire
Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C. Thompson,
Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*I N D E X* for volume 146 pages 27357 - 27612

Day date session page vol.

Monday May 15, 1995 A.M. 27357 146 P.M. 27479 146

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*LEGEND:* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX* of witnesses

*PEOPLE'S* witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Cotton, Robin 146 (Resumed) 27375n (Resumed) 27481n 27532gc 27599n
(Further) 27609gc 27611n

*ALPHABETICAL INDEX* of witnesses

Witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Cotton, Robin 146 (Resumed) 27375n (Resumed) 27481n 27532gc 27599n
(Further) 27609gc 27611n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*_EXHIBITS_*__

__*COURT'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

11 - 11-page report 27384 146 entitled /"People Versus Simpson,
Interpretation Of Mixtures"/ by Dr. Weir

*PEOPLE'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

263 - photograph of 27556 146 a small yield gel with an arrow and the
no. "1" in the upper right corner

264 - photograph of 27556 146 a small yield gel with an arrow and the
no. "3" in the upper right corner

*DEFENSE* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

1151 - drawing by 27384 146 Mr. Neufeld

1152 - 5-page report 27394 146 from Cellmark dated September 8, 1994

1153 - drawing by 27452 146 Mr. Neufeld entitled /"Proficiency Test"/

1154 - 6-page document 27484 146 by CACLD DNA committee

1155 - 3-page document 27485 146 from Cellmark dated May 2, 1988

1156 - photograph of 27491 146 an autorad with two arrows and the
initials "R.C."

1157 - photograph of 27498 146 an autorad exhibits

1157-A - photograph of 27524 146 an autorad with three red arrows and
the initials "R.C." (Computer printout)

1158 - 1-page document 27526 146 dated April 3, 1995, entitled /"LAPD
Scientific Investigation Division"/

//

