*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1995 9:00 A.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES*: (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Back on the record in the Simpson matter. Mr.
Simpson is again present before the Court with his counsel, Mr. Shapiro,
Mr. Cochran, Mr. Neufeld, People represented by Mr. Darden and Mr.
Harmon. Mr. Neufeld, where is Mr. Scheck?

*MR. NEUFELD:* Could we just have two more minutes, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Okay. Anything we can take up? Any other procedural matters
or do we--I guess we need Mr. Scheck for all of our other discussions.

*MR. HARMON:* There's one board we had showed Mr. Scheck the other day
that I don't know if you looked at it. It's a report or a board that
shows RFLP results only. And if you'd like, I can show it to you, and
then Mr. Scheck, if there's an objection, can articulate it.

*THE COURT:* There is or if there is?

*MR. HARMON:* If there is one. I'm sure there won't be, but--

*THE COURT:* No, you don't need that, Mr. Fairtlough. You can just show
it to me. Aha.

*MR. NEUFELD:* At least the jury's not here.

*THE COURT:* You want to show Mr. Scheck there?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I do have an objection as to this board. I
mean, I think it's cumulative at this point. All these results are
already up and on those boards, and to put them up again and again like
this I think becomes unduly confusing. It makes--I mean it's hard to
keep track of all the results, and if you create another board with the
same results yet again, it begins to seem like there's more than there
is. So I think this is a 352 problem.

*THE COURT:* All right. The title of this board is "results of RFLP DNA
analysis" and it purports to collect--Mr. Harmon, is this all the RFLP?

*MR. HARMON:* Except we've got 117 covered up because that hasn't been
recorded yet and those probes are still accumulating. That's why we have
it covered up.

*THE COURT:* And this is all the RFLP testing?

*MR. HARMON:* That have been presented to the jury, yes, your Honor. And
the context in which--once we--once you rule on the statistical
questions that we tell have to resolve, I intend to discuss degradation,
contamination, cross-contamination for a short period of time and then
discuss this case with Mr. Sims as if it were an RFLP case only and
evaluate the evidence in the context of no concern for
cross-contamination because of the exquisite sensitivity of PCR. You've
heard the slogans all along here, but that's the context that I intend
to show this board to Mr. Sims very briefly. If Mr.--I mean, it is also--

*THE COURT:* Why don't you address Mr. Scheck's two direct objections;
one, that it's redundant, and, two, that it has a tendency to be
misleading because it seems to say that there are additional results,
more than what's already on the board that we have. That's how I
understand Mr. Scheck's objection.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the third one of course is no statistics, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, it's hard to imagine how it would seem to say that
there are additional results when--if that's a concern of his, I will
make it clear as a foundational question for Mr. Sims that these do not
represent additional results. These represent--well, we can dispense
with that if that's the concern. You know, the term "redundancy," as we
discussed yesterday, may have a legal implication to you, but in the
scientific context and some of the articles, we will--the scientific
articles by Dr. Edward Blake, the question of redundancy in repeat
analyses has a very positive implication that disabuses one of the
notions that the Defense has cleverly planted in this case. So
"redundancy" is a very powerful word in the scientific context and
especially in this case.

*THE COURT:* All right. Well, don't you address my concern, Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Excuse me, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Why don't you address my concern.

*MR. HARMON:* It is not redundant in the scientific context and,
therefore, it should not be considered as redundant in the legal
context. It is a powerful scientific redundancy that--we can--if you
want to put a time limit on it, I can do it in three and a half minutes.
If I overstep that, I'll be happy for you to pull the plug on me, but I
think it is a powerful point. That in the scientific context, that
redundancy addresses all of these improbable hypothetical--

*THE COURT:* You're still not addressing my concern, that it's
cumulative, that we already have these results on other exhibits.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, this case is cumulative, your Honor. It is. I mean,
that's the point of it. This case is cumulative, and the fact that we
have produced an accumulation of scientific results shouldn't preclude
us from demonstrating the scientific redundancy. It's not irrelevant.
It's not cumulative.

*THE COURT:* Well, how are you going to use this?

*MR. HARMON:* I will ask--I will address it after--you know, maybe the
best thing to do is try to address it in the next break after you hear
Mr. Sims' testimony and his extensive reliance on the publications of
Dr. Blake to address this very point. Maybe that's the best thing. Let
me try to lay a foundation for it. And at that point, if you want to put
a time limit or a number limit on my questions, I'll be happy to--it's
not going to take a lot of time, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right. You're not going to get to this before 10:30?

*MR. HARMON:* I will avoid that point. Even if we do, I'll move on and
then ask you to reconsider at that point.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* All right. We also had the issue regarding the articles
that you wanted the Court to consider. Mr. Harmon, do you have any other
comment?

*MR. HARMON:* No, your Honor. Those articles speak for themselves and
they clarify the concerns that Mr. Scheck had yesterday.

*MR. SCHECK:* I don't think they are. The one concern I had is that they
already elicited testimony where they were able to multiply the D1S80
against the DQ-Alpha.

*THE COURT:* Well, I assume this is for the purposes of any motion to
strike or any further remedies you might seek if it's not--if the
conclusions that Mr. Sims reached are not supported in the scientific
literature.

*MR. SCHECK:* No. I think that the nature of the objection was that--had
to do with the level of his expertise to rely on that particular
document. That is--that is different than compiling a database. In other
words, if you compile a database and you do a study from one particular
system, that's one thing. But to claim he has the expertise to say that
you can do a chain multiplication between systems is quite another. And
that one suggestion in that publication most recently based on that
data, I don't think he has the expertise to draw that additional
inference. And if anyone were to do that, it would probably be a
qualified population geneticist or biostatistician, whom they're going
to be calling. So it seems to me that it really is--I understand the
Court's previous ruling about these systems in place and plugging in the
numbers from the database as within this witness' expertise because of
the way the systems were produced and established. But I think that this
is just an inference beyond which he--it's really fair for him to
comment at this point.

*MR. HARMON:* It sounds like we're relitigating what was conceded now,
that he's not supposed to be able to multiply. I mean, if you recall the
events of yesterday, we pinpointed it during the break. And so you've
already deemed him qualified to do that, and now the question that I
perceive and I know the record bears me out on this is, his sole
remaining objection was the independence of these markers. And those
articles specifically address that. And so the sole question that--the
burning question of yesterday was, could he multiply the Cellmark
markers by the D1S80 markers, and that question was based on Mr.
Scheck's representations that they may not be independent, not that Mr.
Sims was not qualified. I appreciate why it's painful to hear this
stuff, but that was the issue yesterday, and I think that's the only
issue that we addressed in those articles and the articles are clear.

*MR. SCHECK:* My point is this. He's not qualified to make the
assessment based on this one article recently produced in this context.
I understood the Court's previous rulings, looking at all this
literature and all the foundation and all the cases, was that if--and
the foundation that was laid, is that if you have a system which they
created a database, there's been a number of publications and studies
and he is a user essentially of the database and the system that's
presented to him, can say, "I've scored this band," or, "I've recognized
this allele and I go to some published table and I can generate numbers
based on that published table," that that was a sufficient foundation in
the way the Court's ruling, and his expertise is sufficient to do that.
When you're now asking to conduct the chain multiplication of different
marker systems, I don't think that this is an adequate foundation in
terms of this witness' expertise to evaluate this literature and say
it's okay to do this additional chain multiplication. And I think it's
evident from the way the numbers rapidly escalate, that it's no small
matter to say that, let's do a chain multiplication of frequencies on
the order of 1 in 10 for DQ-Alpha, then we'll multiply them on a chain
multiplication against D1S80 and poly-markers, and all of a sudden,
you're looking at much rarer frequencies than you started with. So that
that is a leap that I don't think this witness is within the
foundational perimeters this Court has set out is qualified to make.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you. All right. The objection will be
overruled. And, Mrs. Robertson, let me ask you to mark these articles
that were submitted to the Court as Court's exhibit.

*THE CLERK:* 12.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Court's 12 for id = documents)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Darden.

*MR. DARDEN:* Can we approach without the reporter for just a moment?

*THE COURT:* Do we have to do it now?

*MR. DARDEN:* I'm curious.

*THE COURT:* You're curious?

*MR. DARDEN:* Yeah.

*THE COURT:* I'm curious about a lot of things. Do we have to do this
right now rather than take up jury time?

*MR. DARDEN:* Whatever you like.

*THE COURT:* Does it have something to do with Mr. Harmon's presentation?

*MR. DARDEN:* No, it doesn't.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Let's have the jury. We'll take it up at the break.

*MS. CLARK:* May I ask the Court when we are going to be able to be
heard on the most recently filed motion?

*THE COURT:* Not now.

*MS. CLARK:* I knew that.

*THE COURT:* Today, 4:30?

*MS. CLARK:* Okay or tomorrow.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. Let the record reflect that we've been rejoined by all the
members of our jury panel. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Counsel, for your information, Mrs. Robertson advises me
that the two buzzes this morning which--on the Court's buzzer system
indicates the jury has a question. The jury wanted to bring to the
Court's attention the fact that an article in a publication regarding
this case had slipped through the sensors and that they--one of the
jurors had seen it and immediately brought that to the attention of the
Court. And good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and thank you for your
diligence in this matter. All right. Mr. Sims, would you please resume
the witness stand, please, Gary Sims, the witness on the stand at the
time of the evening adjournment, resumed the stand and testified further
as follows: *THE COURT:* We'll isolate what it is and show it to counsel
at the break. Good morning, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, you are reminded you are still under oath. And,
Mr. Harmon, you may continue with your direct examination.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good morning.

*_DIRECT EXAMINATION (RESUMED) BY MR. HARMON_*

*__MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, before we complete the calculations for some
of the frequencies that we hadn't gotten to yesterday, are you familiar
with a--through the world--FBI world population study a large amount of
HAE 3, the restriction enzyme you use, population data that could be
searched for the profiles that were produced in this case?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, your Honor. 1054, beyond the scope of what we
had agreed to with respect to this witness.

*THE COURT:* Let me see counsel with the Court reporter.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We're over at the sidebar. What's your 1054
objection?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, this is precisely what I was worried about.
And that is the worldwide--so-called study, worldwide study of the FBI
where they went around and they collected frequency data from different
laboratories from different parts of the world with different kinds of
marker systems is not--was not turned over in discovery and was not part
of the calculation that this witness made with respect to these
frequencies, was not part of the offer that Mr. Harmon made when I
pinned him down as to which databases he was relying upon and not
relying upon. So it goes beyond the scope of what he said he was going
to do and what they specifically indicated in discovery when they turned
over databases to us when we specifically asked what databases they were
relying upon.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* That was the only question I was going to ask.

*THE COURT:* Is he familiar with it?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. And his presentation is not going to be based on it.
It may be depending on the extent of cross-examination, but we've never
had any intention of presenting that. I just wanted to--

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no, no. Then it should be struck because the
implication in here is that he's relying on it if he's familiar with the
world-wide study, and that's more prejudicial than probative.

*THE COURT:* All right. Objection is overruled, if that's all it is, is
he familiar with it.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we--I want to read that back.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, do you recall the question I asked?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Are you familiar with that study in the context that I
described it in the question?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we have the sock photo board and the sock result
board? The photo board is 262-A and the result board is 262.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Fairtlough, is it possible to raise the second exhibit?

*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* A little bit, your Honor, but not much.

*THE COURT:* All right. Why don't you raise it as high as you can.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, while we're waiting, we're just going to go in
the order that the stains--the numerical order that they're listed there
and initially discuss the significance of the 11-probe RFLP match
that--on DOJ 42A-1, sock 13, the Greg Matheson cut-out stain. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* How did you approach your calculations to this 11-probe or
11-genetic marker match between Nicole Brown and the cut-out that Greg
Matheson made from sock A?

*MR. SIMS:* The approach that I used was to go to the bin tables, those
are the tables that list the frequencies for these RFLP bins or alleles
within the bins, and I made a determination based on six loci.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And what significance--so when you say "six loci,"
you mean six probes?

*MR. SIMS:* Six probes.

*MR. HARMON:* Six genetic markers?

*MR. SIMS:* Six genetic markers.

*MR. HARMON:* What significance do those other five probes that you did
not use in your calculations have in--giving the jury some appreciation
for how common or rare this match is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The idea is that these additional systems are also
highly polymorphic. They have great powers of exclusion. And so I looked
at those additional loci to check the results of the sock against the
reference sample.

*MR. HARMON:* In normal English, could you tell us what "highly
polymorphic" means?

*MR. SIMS:* It means that--that if you were to take two individuals at
random, there would be a very good likelihood that you would be able to
separate them based on this type of analysis. Any one of those probes is
very strong for that purpose.

*MR. HARMON:* People are pretty different from one another?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* As you demonstrated on all of the autorads when it was
easy to distinguish from among the three reference sources?

*MR. SCHECK:* Leading, argumentative. Let's get to--

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you--just the way we approached the other
statistics, could you describe from among the three major population
groups that you've used in your calculations the frequency estimate for
those three groups and the match between Nicole Brown's reference blood
and Greg Matheson's cut-out stain on the sock?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. For those--the six loci that I looked at, these are
RFLP loci D1S7, D2S44, D4S139, D5S110, D10S28 and D17S79, the profile
detected in stain 42-A(1) occurs in approximately 1 in 21 billion
Caucasians, 1 in 41 billion African Americans and 1 in 7.7 billion
Hispanics, again indicating that this profile is a rare event and
pointing out that these are for unrelated individuals.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, is there any way to express to the jury what impact
those other probes that do--those other genetic markers that have not
played a role in your calculations have on describing how common or rare
the pattern of Nicole Brown's blood is when you look at it and see it in
the sock?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you please relate to the jury in your opinion the
impact on those numbers that you've just communicated to the jury in
helping them evaluate how common or rare that pattern is?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* I'm going to sustain an objection to that question because
I think the statistic itself speaks for itself, how common or rare.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Do each of those additional tests narrow down the
possibilities?

*MR. SIMS:* Certainly.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, specific objection to "these probes," these--

*THE COURT:* Which are we talking about, the six or the five?

*MR. HARMON:* Do each--

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* I'll rephrase it. Thank you, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* Do each of the additional genetic markers that do not play
a role in those calculations that you've just presented to the jury, do
they have an impact on those calculations?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they do.

*MR. HARMON:* And just in general terms, could you explain that to the jury?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, as I started to say earlier, these tests are very good
at distinguishing between individuals. And so what we're looking at is
more and more genetic markers, more and more places on the chromosomes
where we see whether or not a given stain and a given reference sample
match. And the more of those that one looks at, the rarer the profile
must become.

*MR. HARMON:* And--okay. In addition to those 11 genetic markers, your
laboratory performed PCR tests on that same stain; is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And the results you've already described, DQ-Alpha, 1.1,
1.1, D1S80, 18?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What I would like you--have you been provided data based
on Cellmark's analysis of extracted DNA from the very same stain that
you extracted which demonstrates the commonness or uncommonness of the
PCR results in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And in--have you also considered the population data that
you have for the PCR markers that your laboratory used in testing the
exact same DNA in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Is it possible for an expert to calculate the
combined frequency of the poly-marker inclusion, those five genetic
markers, the DQ-Alpha inclusion by Cellmark, your DQ-Alpha inclusion and
your D1S80 inclusion so that you could describe to the jury the
commonness or rarity of the match between those PCR markers and this
stain that Greg Matheson cut out from that sock?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you done that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you please then describe to the jury in the
same way that we have--I forgot to have you write up the RFLP results.
So when we do the PCR results, let's do the RFLP statistics too. Could
you please express to the jury the calculation for the frequencies
between--and the PCR markers matches between Cellmark and the Department
of Justice?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Would you like me to step to the board?

*MR. HARMON:* If you'd just describe that, and then I'll ask you to
write in both of those slots there. We've got a patch for one of those
boards.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, let me ask a clarification question.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* You mentioned DQ-Alpha twice--

*MR. HARMON:* Right. Well, I was--

*THE COURT:* --for both labs. I assume we're only calculating this once.

*MR. HARMON:* That's correct. I was going to ask that after we got it up
there, and I'll clarify that in a moment if I could.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you want to go up there and write up--why don't you
write out the RFLP if there's enough room for that. And I've got a cover
for the PCR.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, while we're doing that, can we approach for
just a second on a related issue?

*THE COURT:* Yeah, with the court reporter, please.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* We are over at sidebar.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm assuming, as the Court picked up, the poly-marker and
DQ-Alpha. There's nothing about--

*THE COURT:* You caused this problem, you guys.

*MR. COCHRAN:* No. Rock did.

*MR. HARMON:* Maybe I can have misconduct added to my tab here.

*MR. SCHECK:* I want to note for the record Patrick Ewing is a great player.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* The point is, DQ-Alpha and poly-marker have the same
system. I assume that he has disaggregated the DQ-Alpha. In other words,
that's number one. Number two, this is my objection. Is that Mr. Harmon
asked a series of questions of this witness about six probes that were
duplicative of the Cellmark probes, a whole series of questions about
how those six probes were discriminated among people and further
differentiated and further made these things more rare. That was the
basis of my relevancy objection, your Honor, because he asked a whole
series of questions to make it seem as though those six probes were
somehow--that were not--they can't be included in the calculation
because the duplicatives were somewhat added to the rareness here. And
my whole problem with that form of presentation and the charts and
everything that he's doing here is that it's calculated to unduly
confuse the jury as to how much it really is and isn't. Now, it's a
limited relevance with respect to the sock I agree. But I get very
concerned when it's--you know, the whole cumulative effect, and I just
wanted to put on the record that I thought that whole line of questions
was a clear 352 violation and was unduly confusing.

*THE COURT:* All right. Noted. Thank you.

*MR. COCHRAN:* Can we show it to the client?

*THE COURT:* Yes, sure.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. Mr. Harmon--excuse me. Mr.
Sims, have you completed your writing?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I wanted the record to reflect that we have a
patch to put over Cellmark's PCR calculations, a magnetic patch, because
these will represent, as Mr. Sims described, a different calculation.

*THE COURT:* All right. And pursuant to our discussions, you'll clarify
this question?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* May the record reflect on exhibit 262, I'm putting a patch
over Cellmark's PCR calculations to allow Mr. Sims an opportunity to
present the cumulative calculations that he's just described.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you write up the cumulative calculations in the PCR
markers between your laboratory and Cellmark? And then we'll clarify.

*THE COURT:* Well, let's have a clarification before we write it.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Sure.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, your laboratory did the same--one of the same markers
that Cellmark did, DQ-Alpha; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. HARMON:* You didn't count that twice in the multiplication, did you?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I did not.

*MR. HARMON:* That would not be proper?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be very wrong.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Is that clear, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Is there any other overlap with any of the other probes
that we--

*MR. HARMON:* Oh, in the RFLP context?

*THE COURT:* No. In the PCR context.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there any other overlap between any of the other PCR
markers?

*MR. SIMS:* No, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* So--and this is purely the cumulative frequency of the
combined PCR test results between your laboratory and Cellmark on the
Greg Matheson cut out from sock no. 13?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This would be for the five poly-marker tests plus
DQ-Alpha plus D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would you write the more common frequency and then
two, the less common frequency or at least the common frequency from
among these three groups?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And you've got 1 in 50,000 to 1 in 6 million.
What--what groups do those represent and then what is the other group? I
guess we haven't explained that to the jury.

*MR. SIMS:* The 1 in 50,000 figure comes from the Caucasian data, the 1
in 6 million comes from the African American data, and then finally, I
calculated an Hispanic figure, and that was 1 in 150,000.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, why don't you stay up there. While you're
there, we're going to go through the other sock stains starting with
your number 42A on sock 13A in the leg area. What is the frequency for
the DQ-Alpha D1S80 match which is consistent with the Defendant and the
same three groups?

*MR. SIMS:* Same three groups?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, please.

*MR. SIMS:* For the African American group, it would be about 1 in 570,
for the Caucasian group, about 1 in 520 and for the Hispanic group,
about 1 in 1400.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you write the least common from among those
three to the most common?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Or the most common to the least common, please.

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And would that frequency be the same for the next
sock, 42-A(3) from sock 13A, the leg area? It's the same results. Would
that be the same frequency?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it would.

*MR. HARMON:* 1 in 520 to 1 in 1400?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that down, please?

/(The witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And would the next stain produce the same results, would
produce the same sort of frequency estimate?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Same range, 1 in 520 to 1 in 1400?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This would be 42-A(4)?

*MR. HARMON:* 42-A(4), yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that down, please.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Now, the next two stains, 42-B(1) and 42-B(2), produce
the same results; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* 42--

*MR. HARMON:* 42-B(1) and 42-B(2), those are your numbers?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* From--this is the other sock now, the one with all the
tiny dots on?

*MR. SIMS:* This is the other sock, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Did you calculate a frequency for the results in
that sock?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what is the--what is the range of frequencies, and
describe the groups that those frequencies come from.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. This would be for the DQ-Alpha type 1.1, 1.1 with the
D1S80 type 18, 18. The frequencies would range as follows: I'll give the
three groups. The African American calculation was 1 in 8900, the
Hispanic calculation is 1 in 1300 and the Caucasian calculation is 1 in 990.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you write from the most common to the least
common, please?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could we move on to the Bundy photo board and the
Bundy result board, photo board exhibit 165 and the Bundy result board, 259?

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, we're going to shift gears and talk about the
combined PCR frequencies for several items that you discussed yesterday.
Those are item 47--these are LAPD items. And the first four are from the
Bundy walkway, 47, 48, 50 and 52; and then after that, we'll--I'll ask
you to do your calculations for the combined frequencies between your
lab and Cellmark on the three nail items from Nicole Brown. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could we lower that down because we're going to start at
the top? Is that okay, your Honor? And we'll move it up as we can.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, let's start at the top, item no. 47 on the
Bundy walkway, the first drop that you analyzed close by--closest to the
victims. Did you calculate a combined frequency for Cellmark's
poly-marker results and DQ-Alpha results which included Mr. Simpson as a
possible source of that and your DQ-Alpha D1S80 results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And in doing so again, did you not use the DQ-Alpha
results twice?

*MR. SIMS:* I did not use the DQ-Alpha results twice.

*MR. HARMON:* Because that would be improper?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be improper.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Could you express to the jury what the combined
frequency based on those calcu--your calculations for the three groups
that we've been using consistently here?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The figures are as follows: For the Caucasian group, it
would be 1 in 1.8 million, for the African American group, 1 in 240,000,
and for the Hispanic group, 1 in 2.2 million.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Your Honor, may the record reflect I'm going to put
a cover over Robin Cotton's calculations?

*MR. HARMON:* And, Mr. Sims, why don't you write down, as we have, from
the most common to the least common among the three groups that you've
just described.

*THE COURT:* Actually, what you might do is allow him to write on the
covers and then put it up.

*MR. HARMON:* Good idea. Thank you.

*MR. HARMON:* Would that--

*MR. SIMS:* Sure.

*MR. HARMON:* Go ahead and--you want to do that one down here?

*MR. SIMS:* Sure.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't you put it up there and move on to 48.
Okay. And 48, the results are the same as in 47, are they?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are.

*MR. HARMON:* 1 in 240,000 to 1 in 2.2 million?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that on the patch and can we put the patch
on the board, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Wrong. No. That's right. I'm sorry. Item no. 50, that's
another item that you and Cellmark both tested for the same PCR markers
as 47 and 48? That's another Bundy walk stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Same results, same calculations?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you write that down on the patch, and when you're
done, put the patch up on item no. 50?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. We need a little patch on one of our patches, your
Honor, if I could have a moment.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And would you look at the result chart. And item
no. 52 is not a lot of space over there. The--did you produce the same
PCR cross-lab multiplication for 52 that you produced for 50, 48 and 47?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what are those numbers?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, that range would be 1 in 240,000 to 1 in 2.2 million.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And that doesn't change the RFLP result or estimate
that Robin Cotton is working there, right?

*MR. SIMS:* No. Those RFLP results are a separate calculation.

*MR. HARMON:* I'll move on--if I can come back to that when we've got
the patch ready, your Honor, I'll move on to items--the 84 group of items.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, you've described to the jury the results of your
testing and on items 84 of the three items yesterday from Nicole Brown's
nail scrapings from both hands and nail clippings. Did you perform
calculations for the combined frequencies of the results that Cellmark
produced on that for their testing for poly-marker and DQ-Alpha which
included Nicole Brown and then combine them with your D1S80 results?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And what are the results of your calculations? What are
the frequency estimates for those three groups?

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. This would be, for now, the poly-marker--five
poly-marker loci, DQ-Alpha and then D1S80.

*MR. HARMON:* Correct.

*MR. SIMS:* And the results would be, for the Caucasian group, 1 in
50,000, for the African American group, 1 in 6 million, and for the
Hispanic group, 1 in 150,000.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Okay. I'm handing you the patch for item 84A. Would
you write down those combined frequencies and put them over in the right
hand column?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And are these calculations the same for all three items,
the scrapings from the left hand, the clippings from the right hand and
the scrapings from the right hand?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Why don't I give you the three separate patches so
you can put the number down all at the same time.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Can you place the patch over on 84A to the right
over the--it's your DOJ DNA 46B. And then the other two patches are a
little bit smaller. Would you put them over your 45-A(1)(B) from the
right-hand clippings?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And then your 45B, the right-hand scrapings.

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, you can go back to your seat. Oh, no. We
still have 52. Okay. Mr. Sims, we've got some patches on patches. Could
you write down the PCR combined frequency for item 52, that drop out on
the driveway, just the PCR testing that was done between DOJ and
Cellmark on that stain?

/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Thanks, Mr. Sims. Mr. Sims, I'd like to shift
gears if I can and talk about the possible effects of contamination on
PCR versus RFLP. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* You've already told us that you relied on the--

*MR. HARMON:* Can we take those boards down, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you.

*MR. HARMON:* You've already told us that you rely on the scientific
literature regularly in forming opinions?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, may we approach for a minute. I think--

*THE COURT:* No. Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think you're going to get into an area that we
approached on beforehand.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, I don't think we are, but--

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* What journals do you read, scientific journals?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I read a variety of them. In the forensic literature,
I read the journal of forensic sciences, the journal of forensic science
society, the American journal of human genetics. There's a variety of
other journals that relate to DNA testing and also to the forensic use
of DNA testing.

*MR. HARMON:* And how frequently do those journals come out, average?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, some of them are monthly, some of them are six times a
year.

*MR. HARMON:* And is this a rapidly evolving area?

*MR. SIMS:* Very rapidly.

*MR. HARMON:* In what sense?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the technology in--DNA technology is keeping--is
evolving at a very incredible rate. It's--to me, it's much like computer
technology. It's rapidly evolving. And what happens is, the advances
that come about in molecular biology and genetics are then transferred
to the forensic level. And so we're all evolving very rapidly.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I'm going--we're going to go through some of the
articles, and I want to ask you initially whether you've read and relied
upon them, which is the key word, in forming any of the opinions that
you're about to express, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, may we approach for a minute on this?

*THE COURT:* Have you shared these items with Mr. Scheck?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's why.

*THE COURT:* Let me see counsel at sidebar with the reporter.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We are over at the sidebar. Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. I would like an offer of proof as to where this line
of testimony is going, the articles that Mr. Harmon has just given me
from Dr. Blake, and I would like to know the rulings in advance so that
we can work out the groundrules about what can and cannot be said in
this connection so that I don't have to get up and, you know, object
continually. I would like to know what the rulings are in advance.

*THE COURT:* What are you guarding against? A constant implication that,
is this the same Dr. Blake who was observing all this testing, that type
of question?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. We had an agreement that when he was beginning to get
into this area, we would have a discussion about the perimeters of what
could or could not be done.

*THE COURT:* Rock, where are we going with this?

*MR. HARMON:* Scientists rely on this. And while I understand their
chagrin in trying to explain why he's off the witness list and why
he's--and why he may not come in here, he's the leading scientist in
this area.

*THE COURT:* I understand. We all understand that. What area are you
going to question him on?

*MR. HARMON:* Contamination issue, degradation. These are all simply
addressed in these articles, and I think we're entitled--we're clearly
entitled to have an expert rely on scientific literature and articulate
the basis for his opinion and how he's relied on it.

*THE COURT:* Why isn't that hearsay on direct examination?

*MR. HARMON:* I can get you 801 and 804. I mean, Judge--I mean 801
especially.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And then I think 804 even makes it clearer, that while
one may not appreciate--while they may try to trivialize his opinion is
based on it, the fact is that he has based his opinion on scientific
literature.

*MR. SCHECK:* I have no objection to him saying he bases his opinion on
scientific literature and expressing his opinion, going into all these
details. But what I object to is that there are many authors to this
article and continually mentioning this particular author to try to
raise the implication that Dr. Blake approved of all the testing not in
his laboratory--that's the issue in this case--but the LAPD. So I mean
if he wants to elicit that there's other articles in the field and get
into specifics, that's what I really want an offer of proof as to what
he's going to bring out. You know, I have no problem with him saying he
bases his opinion on all this and indicating what those articles are.

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* You know, the subject matter. I just think it's a 352
problem at the very least here to continually say, well, it's--

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, what I'm going to tell you is off limits is
this question, is this the same Dr. Blake who observed--

*MR. HARMON:* I'll read all the authors' names in. Yeah.

*THE COURT:* All right. All right. Let's proceed.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, I'm going to read off the names and titles
of several articles and ask you if you've read and considered them, and
then we'll go through them in certain areas, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you read an article by Comey and Budowle entitled
validation studies on the analysis of the HLA DQ-Alpha locus using the
polymerase chain reaction?

*MR. SIMS:* Is that November `91 Journal of Forensic Sciences?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, it is.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I've read that.

*MR. HARMON:* And Budowle is b-u-d-o-w-l-e? Have you also read and
relied upon--and the subjects we'll be discussing soon--a chapter in a
book entitled PCR technology, principles and applications for DNA
amplification, Henry Erlich, editor, chapter 17, the title is
applications of PCR to the analysis of biological evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* The authors are Cecelia Beroldingen,
B-E-R-O-L-D-I-N-G-E-N, Edward Blake, Russell Higuchi, h-I-g-u-c-h-i,
George Sensabaugh, s-e-n-s-a-b-a-u-g-h, and Henry Erlich?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you also read and relied upon an article in the
journal of forensic science entitled polymerase chain reaction
amplification and human leukocyte, L-E-U-K-O-C-Y-T-E, antigen
oligonucleotide, O-L-I-G-O-N-U-C-L-E-O-T-I-D-E, typing on biological
evidence samples casework experience?

*MR. SIMS:* Is that the one where Blake is the lead author?

*MR. HARMON:* It's--the authors are Edward Blake, Jennifer Mihalovich,
M-I-H-A-L-O-V-I-C-H, Russ Higuchi, Shawn Walsh and Henry Erlich.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you also read and relied upon--and the testimony
we'll be presenting soon--an article entitled analysis of genetic
markers in forensic DNA samples using the polymerase chain reaction in
analytical chemistry, 1991, the authors are Rebecca Reynolds, George
Sensabaugh and Edward Blake.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you read and relied upon a chapter in forensic
science handbook, volume 3, by Richard Safferstein, 1993, entitled DNA
analysis in biological evidence: Applications of the polymerase chain
reaction by George Sensabaugh and Edward Blake?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you also read and relied upon an article entitled or
chapter entitled applications of the polymerase chain reaction in
forensic science, the authors of which are Russell Higuchi and Edward
Blake, and that's in the Vanbury report, no. 32?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, are you--let's focus on PCR for a moment.
Is it your opinion that a typing error in the PCR process is more likely
to result in a false exclusion than an inclusion?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And have you read and considered and relied upon the
casework article for that proposition?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, as well as my own understanding.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could you explain the basis for your opinion that a
typing error in the PCR process is more likely to result in a false
exclusion than an inclusion?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The basis for that is that if one obtains a result that
is a false positive, then that sort of result would be more likely to
say--to exclude somebody than to include somebody in most instances.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you be a little more descriptive of how that might
occur during the PCR typing process?

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I would object, that this is vague and without
foundation at this point.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for example, if one were to test a given bloodstain
against a particular individual, particular individual may--his or her
type may occur, say, in 1 in 10 or something like that, maybe 1 in 20
with a DQ-Alpha, for example. And so if you're generating at random
wrong results, then it's unlikely that it would match that particular
individual. It's more likely that it would match--the type would
be--match somebody else.

*MR. SCHECK:* Motion to strike.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, is it your opinion that the application of
PCR technology in the forensic context is in any way different than it
is in the diagnostic context?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. No foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, is it your opinion that any of the properties of
forensic DNA samples are unique--or strike that. Is it your opinion that
any of the properties of the kinds of forensic samples that your lab
encounters are unique to forensic science or different than clinical
setting?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Foundation. Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims--

*THE COURT:* Ask him some questions about his familiarity with it.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. HARMON:* Are you familiar in a general context with the kinds
of--or have you read the casework article?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would it help to refresh your recollection--is that
discussed, the uniqueness or the difference of forensic samples, in the
casework article, the lead author of which is Edward Blake?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Foundation as to this witness' expertise to
review that point.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Your question again, please?

*MR. HARMON:* The question about whether forensic samples are different
than clinical samples.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's my objection, "clinical."

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it discussed in that article?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe it is, as I recall.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would it help to refresh your recollection if you
reviewed--I can direct you to a page in that article, if you would.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Page 721. Can I show it to--be on page 721, if you would
read the paragraph at the bottom.

*MR. SCHECK:* My objection is--

*THE COURT:* I know--what's your objection? What's the legal grounds?

*MR. SCHECK:* No foundation for this witness--

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* Wait--can I state it?

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Sit down.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, all right.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Excuse me. What Dr. Blake and the other--

*THE COURT:* No. No. The question is, does that refresh your
recollection as to whether or not there's any correlation between the
medical diagnostic application or the forensic application.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does refresh my memory.

*THE COURT:* Next question.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you have an opinion on that subject?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection as to his opinion.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* Can I also have which page you're referring to?

*MR. HARMON:* 721.

*MR. SCHECK:* Of which article?

*MR. HARMON:* Towards the bottom--the casework article.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that which one? 721?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Oh, I'm sorry, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you have an opinion on that subject?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The point of this is that forensic samples may be
mixtures. They may be degraded, but these kinds of samples are also
encountered by clinical workers using PCR technology.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Move to strike this answer, this witness'
answer about what's found in clinical technology.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* And is your opinion based on having your recollection
refreshed by reading the bottom of page 721 of Dr. Blake's casework article?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I already had some opinion on that, but specifically
with regards to the article, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, just as an aside, have you read the NRC report
that came out three years ago?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you relied on the NRC report in any way for any of
the opinions you've expressed to this moment?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you intend to rely on the NRC report in any way for
any of the opinions that you will express for the next several moments?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Could I have my book back? Could you define as best you
can the term "contamination" in the crime scene forensic DNA context so
the jury can appreciate the discussion we're going to have?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There are a variety of ways of looking at
contamination. One would be fundamentally, for example, at a crime scene
where you may have mixtures of bodily fluids, blood from two different
individuals could land together, that sort of thing, or end up in a
garment situation. That would be one form of contamination. Another form
of contamination would be the concern one would have in the laboratory.
In other words, if somebody is mishandling samples, then that could lead
potentially to contamination as one DNA is transferred to another DNA.
And then finally, the type of contamination that we are most worried
about with PCR and that we have to take special precautions for is what
is called PCR product contamination; and that's because this process of
PCR, as Dr. Cotton explained, generates large numbers of these DNA
segments that are of a particular short length that are considered to be
PCR product now. And by generating those large numbers, you want to make
sure that that material doesn't in any way contaminate your original
source material or your extracted DNA.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you have an opinion about whether or not, generally
speaking, there are adequate ways to control against those three areas
of contamination?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection to the form of the question.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I think it's--there's two responses here. One is that there
are ways to control for the contamination. There are also ways of
monitoring for that contamination. And both--both of those are important
aspects with regards to contamination, both the monitoring as well as
the precautions.

*MR. HARMON:* And I want to direct your attention to the chapter by
Sensabaugh and Blake in the Safferstein article. Is the subject of those
areas of contamination, which you've just described for the jury, is
that discussed in that article?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Do you remember the entire discussion that occurs on
pages 441 and 442 of that subject?

*MR. SIMS:* I haven't memorized it, but I have a good knowledge of what
they say.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Would it help to refresh your recollection to review
that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Have you had a chance to review that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And so what is your opinion specifically about the kinds
of controls that can safeguard against those forms of contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* My opinion about the types of controls?

*MR. HARMON:* Sure.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, they basically--their words basically mirror the
things that I was talking about where they--for example, they mention
maintaining clean work areas, using gloves, changing gloves, that sort
of thing. And then also, they stress which controls should be run.
They--they draw an analogy to the types of precautions that would be
taken in an infectious disease situation or laboratory handling
infectious materials.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you have an opinion based on your review of that
article that should contamination occur, it can be recognized?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In most cases, it can.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that based on the article as well?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In context--well--

*MR. HARMON:* I want to shift to another article that I've described
earlier, PCR technology, chapter 17 by Beroldinger, Blake, Higuchi,
Sensabaugh and Erlich. Do you have an opinion about whether or not the
most likely avenue for chance introduction of foreign DNA is during
sample preparation?

*MR. SIMS:* I would agree with that.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do you have an opin--or is it your opinion that
common sense precautions can safeguard against that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you recall whether or not that subject is discussed
in the article I just described, this chapter 17?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That chapter has a good discussion of the contamination
issue.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do you agree that the presence of a contaminant
is often readily apparent?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it also your opinion that appropriate controls should
be used that would indicate these situations of contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Absolutely.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* What opinion do you have if any about whether or not
appropriate controls should be used that would indicate these situations
of contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* The opinion I have is that those controls should be always
be run to monitor for contamination.

*MR. HARMON:* And what opinion if any do you have about whether or not
negative controls, including extraction reagent blanks and unstained
substrate controls when possible, should be run for each batch of DNA
isolations?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Compound.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I agree with that, and that's what we do in my laboratory.

*MR. HARMON:* And what opinion do you have about whether or not the
absence of a PCR product in these control reactions attest to the
validity of the typing results derived from the evidence samples?

*MR. SIMS:* I would agree with that.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you have an opinion about whether or not it is
desirable to have some form of redundant sample analysis in a given case?

*MR. SIMS:* I would agree it's desirable.

*MR. HARMON:* And generally speaking, do you recall whether or not those
subjects are discussed in chapter 17 that I've been referring to?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I know that chapter quite well.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. But do you have it memorized?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Would it help to refresh your recollection? I'll direct
you to page 215--

*THE COURT:* He hasn't indicated that his memory needs to be refreshed
as to anything so far.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you remember whether or not those questions I just
asked you specifically are addressed the way I reiter--the way I asked you?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe those are in there, but it would refresh my memory
to be sure that they're in there.

*MR. HARMON:* 215, 216.

*THE COURT:* This is really not an appropriate way to refresh someone's
recollection. I don't believe it to be necessary at this point. Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* And it's your recollection those are discussed in chapter
17 that I just--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, let's talk about the validation study that we
discussed at the very beginning by Comey and Budowle.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you have that one clear in your mind? You remember it
was 19--November `91?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Could--and I just want you to focus for a moment on the
kind--was there a sample handling part of that study that's published
and described in detail?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There was a--that was a major part of that article or
an important part of that article.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do you rely on that in the way you perform your
PCR analyses?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Does it help you in deciding what safeguards to take
against in-lab contamination or sample preparation contamination to rely
on that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. HARMON:* And what is your opinion about sample-to-sample
contamination in the laboratory? Is it possible for that to occur?

*MR. SIMS:* Is it possible?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And the opinion you've expressed is actually based
on where that was demonstrated in that article; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Vague as to samples, what kind of laboratory.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What--let's just open it up. What kinds of samples
were handled in that case and what sorts of conclusions were drawn from
the possibilities of sample handling error?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Vague, foundation as to which case.

*THE COURT:* Compound.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you have an opinion about the kinds of sample handling
errors that can occur that can allow samples to cross-contaminate one
another?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And is that opinion based on the sample handling portion
of the casework article?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, and also our own experience in the laboratory with PCR
and the experience of many other people using PCR.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's focus on the article and what your opinion is
based on having read the article. What sorts of sample handling errors
is it your opinion can produce sample-to-sample contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* The sorts of concerns would be, for example, in that
article, they mentioned two wet bloodstains being brought into contact
with each other. That would be one example. There are other instances.
They attempted to deliberately contaminate certain stains in those
articles and they had difficulty doing that with bloodstains of
sufficient quality and quantity of DNA. They also did some samples where
they looked at saliva and blood and that sort of thing and how that
might affect the contamination issue. I think the last thing they--or
one of the other things they looked at was whether or not cutting with
scissors, cutting a bloodstain, whether or not those scissors would
transfer contamination.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's focus on--there's actually a table that
describes--in the Comey article that describes their efforts to force
samples to contaminate one another. Is that--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. They list several scenarios in that table.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And from--based on having read that article alone,
what sorts of sample-to-sample contamination were they able to induce?

*MR. SIMS:* As I recall, they were able to induce it when blood stains
were brought into contact with each other, actually touching each other.
They were able to induce it with mixtures of saliva and blood, for example.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's start--let's take those one at a time. When
you say touching one another, are you referring to the dried stains that
were stored together?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think they had a low level--detectable low level
contaminant when dry. It was more of a problem when they're wet and
touching each other, which one would obviously expect.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. When you say touching, do you mean stored?

*MR. SIMS:* Stored together, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* In other words, put together and kept together?

*MR. SIMS:* That's my understanding.

*MR. HARMON:* Would it help to refresh your recollection if you looked
at page 1639 of the article?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And let's just talk about the--in that sample
handling study, the two top categories, dried stains stored together and
wet stains stored together.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* What were the results of those attempts to force
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, what they did was, they took--they took blood from two
different sources, dried stains from two different sources and tried
the--tested one, then tested the other to see which one may have
contaminated the other. And with one of those, they saw no exchange.
With the other one, they saw that there was a trace contaminant of one
of the alleles onto the other stain.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And does the article describe how long they were
actually stored together?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall them actually mentioning the time. I think it
just mentions that they were stored together.

*MR. HARMON:* And you mentioned also--give us a general idea of what
sorts of other experiments, sample handling experiments the study was
based on where they tried to force cross-contamination between samples
that were ultimately typed using the PCR DQ-Alpha system.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. For example, they looked at the effects of
perspiration. They didn't find any contamination from that. They also
looked at small one-microliter bloodstains that they were handling, and
they did not find any contamination from that. They had a small
one-microliter bloodstain that they coughed over for one minute, and
that produced no contamination. And then--by that, I mean, they know the
type of the bloodstain. They know the type of the cougher. And so they
look to see whether or not the cougher's type ends up on the bloodstain.
They also did an experiment where they took small one-microliter
bloodstains and scratched their head for 30 seconds to shed their
dandruff over it to see if that would cause a contamination problem, and
it did not. Then they also did some experiments where they actually
mixed blood and saliva, and there, as one would expect, you could get a
contamination. You would see the types from the blood and the saliva.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I think you used the word "transfer" or "evidence
transfer." what--or "trace transfer" in this discussion. What do you
mean by that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, what I'm talking about is whether or not small
contributions of contamination would show up in a bloodstain.

*MR. HARMON:* And based on that study, the only two areas of trace
transfer where wet stains stored together for some period of time--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Based on that study, were the only instances of--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Leading.

*MR. HARMON:* --typeable DNA evidence transfer--

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* But the scissors, contaminated scissors, what was that again?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The bloodstain was cut with scissors and the
contamination was not detected. In other words, I--as I read the
article, two stains in a row were--were cut with these scissors and the
scissors, after cutting the first stain, the first stains type did not
show up in the second.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, let's shift a little bit here and let's
talk about substrate controls in the context of the Comey article and in
the context of the work that you did in this case. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you define a substrate control in the context of the
kinds of samples that you typed in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. A substrate control--for example, if we talk about
blood drops on the sidewalk, one would want to collect the bloodstain
and then to collect and sample an area, an unstained area where there
was no blood detected nearby the bloodstain. That's a substrate control.
So you're testing that particular substrate and you're testing it very
close to where the bloodstain is.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And then processing it as if it were a stain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. And then it goes through the entire process and you
look to see if there's any type showing up in that substrate control.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And I believe a little while ago, relying on one of
the Blake, Sensabaugh articles, you define three areas of sample
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And it's my recollection sample mixing in the field?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Contamination by investigators or by lab personnel?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection. Leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* What were those three categories again?

*MR. SIMS:* I mentioned the contamination in the field. In other words,
mixed samples occurring in the field. I mentioned contamination
occurring in the laboratory as these samples are either processed or
extracted, and then finally I mentioned PCR product contamination.

*MR. HARMON:* And that's after the PCR is amplified?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's talk about the field sample mix-up. And what I
want to do is discuss the implications of having substrate controls
collected systematically in the field. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* And the question is, if--if a criminalist systematically
alternated between substrate controls and stains in the evidence
collection process, what effect if any does the presence or the
availability of the substrate control have as a safeguard against sample
mix-up?

*MR. SIMS:* It's an important safeguard because it shows to me--if
the--if the substrate controls turn out to be negative, it shows to me
that there is no cross-contamination from sample to sample. Because of
the alternating structure of that collection process, one has a stain,
then a substrate control that should turn up negative, then another
stain, then another substrate control. So that monitors that between
each one of those stains, you've got one of these substrate controls.
And if that shows negative, then that indicates that you're unlikely to
have contaminated the bloodstains on either side of that control.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What effect--let's focus on the same context as the
safeguard against sample mix-up in the field. What effect does just
simply collecting one stain at a time with its substrate control have as
a safeguard against sample mix-up in the field?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I think that's an important safeguard because it means
you're focused on one particular event and you're not likely then to be
handling too many samples at once. You're just keeping track of one item
at a time.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to the next category that you described,
and that is contamination by investigators or laboratory personnel.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay? What effect does the presence of substrate controls
which type clean, do not produce a type, have as a safeguard against
contamination by investigators or laboratory personnel?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, those are very important because you have to remember
that if those are negative, in other words, they have no DNA, they're
even more vulnerable to this contamination showing up than would a good
bloodstain be. In other words, a good bloodstain be--a good bloodstain
might have so much DNA that you may not even see a trace amount of
contamination with this PCR testing. But these substrate controls, if
they're negative to begin with, they have no DNA, they're certainly
going to be more vulnerable to showing any traces of contamination. So
that's why they're important.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. As long as they test clean?

*MR. SIMS:* As long as they test clean.

*MR. HARMON:* As they did in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* As all of the ones that we tested were negative, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon, we need to take our break at this point. All
right. Ladies and gentlemen, please remember all of my admonitions to
you; do not discuss this case amongst yourselves, don't form any
opinions about the case, do not conduct any deliberations until the
matter has been submitted to you; do not allow anybody to communicate
with you with regard to the case. And we'll be in recess for 15.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Back on the record in the Simpson matter. Counsel, two
matters before we get started. The newspaper article that the jurors
brought to the Court's attention appeared in a little blurb column
regarding counsel's comments regarding various basketball teams, and I
find this to be no harm, no foul, but I think it speaks to the diligence
and the integrity of our jurors, so I will convey to them the Court's
compliments. I take it there is no other comment or objection on behalf
of the parties?

*MR. COCHRAN:* Your Honor, may I just make one inquiry? Have there been
any other articles at any other times?

*THE COURT:* No. The first time it has happened that one slipped by.
Secondly, I received over the break two notes from jurors and they are
indicating that there are individuals, regular--regular attendees,
meaning the media persons, and they give me seat numbers, who are
constantly talking in the courtroom and who are causing them to have
difficulty hearing the testimony, and they have given me the seat
numbers of the persons who--in the last session who were talking
constantly and disturbing them. And I am going to have Miss Hayslett
identify the two individuals and those persons will be banned from
further attendance in the courtroom. All right. Let's have the jury, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Sims. Good morning again, sir.

*MR. SIMS:* Good morning.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* In discussing the subject of--the second subject of
cross-contamination of samples and when substrate controls were
involved, we covered contamination by investigators and lab personnel;
is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And if--if the stains and the substrate controls were
alternated systematically would that provide a safeguard against
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it would.

*MR. HARMON:* And let's reflect back on the Comey article, too, and
remember the contaminated scissors?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, asked and answered, leading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I assume this is foundational.

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, your Honor, for injecting substrate controls in there.

*THE COURT:* Please.

*MR. HARMON:* If one were to use--if a forensic scientist were to use
contaminated scissors that were contaminated with a quantity of DNA and
alternate between substrate controls and evidence stains, would that
provide any kind of a safeguard against cross-contamination of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it would, because again the scissors would be used on a
bloodstain and then if there was any contamination, that should then be
transferred, if it were--if was contamination it would be transferred to
this substrate control which would very likely show that contamination
and then that would be monitored before one would proceed then to the
next bloodstain. So if that substrate control in the middle turns up
clean, that indicates that there was no contamination detected.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let me just clarify a point about the Comey article.
Have you had a chance to look at it again during the break?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* If you would, the two areas where there was
cross-contamination between stains, could you tell us more about
how--what kind of contact, if any, those stains had, both the wet and
the dry?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the article indicates that the two stains were
actually touching each other. They were actually stored together in a
way that they were touching each other and that is the important point,
is that they are in physical contact.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's shift to the third area and that is contamination
within the laboratory. We've already discussed contamination by lab
personnel in sample preparation and I think you talked about
contamination by amplified product?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, you previously discussed the concept of negative
controls as a safeguard against contamination about PCR product?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Do--in addition to negative controls, and assuming they
test clean, what are the implications of having substrate controls
processed through the entire PCR process as a safeguard against
contamination in the laboratory by amplified PCR product?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Those--again, those substrate controls, if they had no
DNA on them to begin with, would be most vulnerable to showing any
contamination, whether it occurred from this handling effects, whether
there was something in the laboratory, whether there was any PCR product
contamination. And because they are treated in the same manner, they go
through the entire process and so this is an important control on the
entire process; not just the collection, not just the extraction of the
DNA, but all the way through the typing.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Umm--strike that. You have--actually, when you
opened up all of the evidence if this case, have you documented the
condition of the actual substrate controls that you previously
enumerated when you talked about the results in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do the substrate controls, are they all uniform
in appearance for all the samples, all the substrate controls that you
tested in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there a range in how they appear?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there is.

*MR. HARMON:* And when you sample those substrate controls, let's assume
they are not uniform, some are discolored--some part are discolored,
some appear clean?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* In this case, if you saw a substrate control that parts of
it were cleaner than others, what part did you sample to process through
the entire PCR process?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection here is foundational with respect to making
something hypothetical as opposed to specific.

*THE COURT:* Is the objection that it assumes facts that aren't in
evidence yet?

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Sure.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Did you sample all the substrate controls that you said
you sampled in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay?

*THE COURT:* I think you asked him did he document, at the time of
receipt, the substrate controls. I guess the question would be did he
notice any differences between the substrates at that point.

*MR. HARMON:* I think I have asked a different question. I think I have
moved on.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* I haven't finished that area. Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* When you sampled the substrate controls, if one part of
any of the control was dirtier, appeared dirtier than the other, which
part did you sample?

*MR. SCHECK:* Assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Specific--

*THE COURT:* Were there any such?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, there were, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* And when you encountered such a substrate control, what
did you do?

*MR. SIMS:* Took the dirtier or what appeared to be the dirtier area in
this case, as I can recall.

*MR. HARMON:* Why was that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I figured that probably received more of the
environment. For example, if it was a sidewalk, it probably got better
contact than maybe the other area of the substrate control.

*MR. HARMON:* And what would that--if that had happened, why would
sampling the dirtier part of it have been important to you?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that--that tells me that that is most likely the area
that was most heavily--for example, may have some dirt or whatever is on
that substrate that I got a good area to test, in other words.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I'm going to direct your attention to just a couple
of these substrate controls and see if you can describe how they
appeared to you when you first observed them. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* The substrate control for LAPD item 52, the drop out in
the driveway at Bundy, do you recall--do you have an independent
recollection of how that appeared when you observed it and ultimately
sampled it?

*MR. SIMS:* That one in particular I believe I do have an independent
recollection of.

*MR. HARMON:* And what--what is that?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, my independent recollection was that it was sort of
pinkish.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that the only one that was pinkish that you recall?

*MR. SIMS:* That is the only one I recall was pinkish.

*MR. HARMON:* In fact, were most of them absent of any coloration or--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, leading.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Were most of them, did they appear clean to the naked eye?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, still heeding.

*THE COURT:* Still leading.

*MR. HARMON:* How did most of them appear to the naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* Most of them appeared as pieces of white fabric.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that unusual?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* If you would, let's talk about substrate control 48, 48C.
If you like I can direct your attention to a page in your notes. Do you
recall how that appeared when you examined it?

*MR. SIMS:* Not without looking at my notes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would it help to refresh your recollection if you look at
page 48 of your notes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. What is your recollection of how 48 appeared?

*MR. SIMS:* The 48 control was our item number dna-22. I noted there was
some dark debris specks associated with a cloth and I took those also
for the extraction process.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Do you recall what the control for item 50 looked
like, the substrate control for item 50, which is farther back along the
Bundy walkway?

*MR. SIMS:* Again I would have to look at my notes.

*MR. HARMON:* Would it help? It is on the same page there, 48.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I noted that it was a piece of whitish cloth with some
brownish staining. I thought it may be some soiling.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And let's just shift to some others that look
differently, for example, item 29 control, that is from the steering
wheel of the Bronco.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Could you--would it help--do you remember what it looked like?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Would it help to refresh your recollection if you looked
at your notes on page 21?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. How did that appear?

*MR. SIMS:* That was generally just an irregularly-shaped piece of white
cloth.

*MR. HARMON:* Is that unusual to see a substrate control that looked
like that?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And do you have actually detailed notes of each and
every other substrate control that you observed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And photographs of them as well?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And this is before you sampled them?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, let's move on, if you will. I would like
to discuss the--the subject of degradation of DNA and
cross-contamination, if you will.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I want to give you a hypothetical and ask you some
questions about the hypothetical. The hypothetical is that all of the
Bundy walkway stains were collected and they were packaged in plastic
bags and substrate controls were collected systematically alternating
between the substrate control and the evidence stain. They were packaged
in plastic bags, they were put in a truck for several hours and they
were brought back to the Los Angeles laboratory. They were put in this
same box with items that were collected from Mr. Simpson's residence,
that were also collected systematically with substrate controls. For
starters, is it possible--

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm going to object to this hypothetical in that form. I
think it misstates the evidence and is compound.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* We've already described the Comey article and you have
described how at least based on studies it is possible to
cross-contaminate samples; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And you have described the conditions under which
cross-contamination can occur?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, in that study none of those samples were degraded; is
that right?

*MR. SIMS:* In my understanding in that study is that those were good
quality bloodstains, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, do you have an opinion about whether or not, just the
co-existence of those--and I'm sorry, let me withdraw that question.
Let's assume that there were stains from Mr. Simpson's residence which
in fact were from him contained his DNA, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* (No audible response.)

*MR. HARMON:* Is it possible, scientifically possible, in your opinion,
for those stains, merely by their co-existence in a room, for them to
cross-contaminate one another?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection at this time.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. HARMON:* These stains from two residences are collected along with
their systematic substrate controls.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* They are brought into a room where they remain for a
period of time. They are not in contact with one another. Okay so far?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it possible, based on that information alone, for those
stains to have cross-contaminated one another?

*MR. SCHECK:* My--I don't know about the rules on hypothetical in terms
of--but--

*THE COURT:* Speaking objection.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* Is the objection foundation?

*MR. SCHECK:* (Nods head up and down.)

*THE COURT:* Assumes facts that aren't in evidence?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. That objection is overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. HARMON:* You may answer that question.

*MR. SIMS:* The question is how were those stains packaged at this point?

*MR. HARMON:* They were initially left in plastic bags. I will--well,
actually let's start off. They are in a box together.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* They are in coin envelopes that are folded over and they
are in plastic bags in those coin envelopes that are folded over. Is it
possible for those samples to cross-contaminate one another?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I would say no.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Let's move to the evidence room. Moving that box
where you don't believe cross-contamination was possible, into the
evidence room, is it possible for those stains to have
cross-contaminated one another and not cross-contaminated the substrate
controls?

*MR. SCHECK:* Foundational objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. You need some additional facts now that we are
in the evidence processing room.

*MR. HARMON:* Excuse me, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* You need some additional facts now that we are in the
evidence processing room. It is also vague as to what state--

*MR. SCHECK:* There are a lot of facts.

*THE COURT:* I have sustained the objection, counsel.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. You have told us it is not possible, given that they
are packaged up in a box in the truck?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Does moving that box into a room and leaving it on
the table, is it possible for those stains to have cross-contaminated
one another?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection--

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* --to that testimony.

*MR. SIMS:* Under those conditions, no.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, let's assume that those stains are now processed for
drying and that--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, move to strike, vague on processing.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. He hasn't finished the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* I assume that that is next.

*MR. HARMON:* The processing for drying systematically alternates
between the substrate controls and the evidence stains and that--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* If one were to systematically alternate between the
substrate controls and the evidence stains--

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, assumes facts not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* --and that the substrate controls ultimately were
processed along with those stains and produced no typeable results, do
you--is it your opinion that those samples were cross-contaminated at
that point?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, speculative, assumes fact not in evidence.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I would say there is certainly no evidence for that and that
I think those substrate controls would then provide a way of monitoring
to show that that did not occur.

*MR. HARMON:* Let me add to that hypothetical, that a known reference
tube of Mr. Simpson's blood was kept in that room in a black plastic
garbage bag. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Add to the hypothetical you just answered. Is it possible
for those samples to have been contaminated by that reference tube in
the black plastic bag without contaminating the substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I would follow that up, that in other words, you
wouldn't get blood out of the plastic bag to begin with. That is the
main point there.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, let me add to that. Let's accumulate to the next
question. Let's assume that each and every stain that you tested along
the Bundy walkway was degraded to the point where you were unable to
type with any of the PCR methods. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Just add that to the hypothetical that I just asked you.
Is it possible for cross-contamination to have occurred in that setting
without cross-contaminating the substrate controls?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again I would give the same answer, that the substrate
controls provide evidence that that did not occur.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Now, let's move on. Are you familiar with how the
Los Angeles Police Department processes evidence stains in substrate
controls for drying?

*MR. SIMS:* I have some information on that, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And let's assume--or is that information, that they use
the tube drying method?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And place them back in the coin envelope?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And place the coin envelopes in a box?

*MR. SIMS:* That's my understanding, that it is box so that they can now
air dry--that the tubes can now air dry.

*MR. HARMON:* Place the box up on a metal shelf up on the wall?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, this is my general understanding. I don't--I have
never seen the actual room.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's talk about the qualities of DNA. Now, we've got
everything drying up in the tubes and assume it is dried overnight.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Have you seen photographs of what DNA looks like
microscope--powerful microscopic photographs?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there are--yes, very are very powerful microscopes you
can see the motion of DNA, for example.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, can DNA fly?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't think so.

*MR. HARMON:* I mean, there are no scientific studies that have shown
that, are there?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I don't think it has wings.

*MR. HARMON:* How about if it is from a bird, can it fly?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't think that makes any difference.

*MR. HARMON:* Does the DNA of an athletic person that is in a stain have
any athletic prowess, more than a dead person?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I--

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained. Sustained. The jury is to disregard
the tenor of that question.

*MR. HARMON:* Are you aware of any scientific studies that show that DNA
can come to life at night?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Is it possible for the sample to have been
cross-contaminated up on the shelf in the box in the coin envelopes in
those tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Again I would answer that the substrate controls provide the
monitor to ensure that this didn't occur.

*MR. HARMON:* Now, I believe you discussed, and I'm getting close to the
end here, Mr. Sims, I believe you discussed--I think you--in discussing
some of your sample processing, you mentioned you bleach your rulers; is
that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And I think you also said what do you to wipe your tools
with when you are doing evidence processing?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I do three things. I do a water washdown under the tap,
then I wipe it with a chem wipe, than I do an ethanol rinse and wipe
that off, and finally I flame them over a bunsen burner flame, very hot
flame.

*MR. HARMON:* What kind of tools are we talking about?

*MR. SIMS:* Generally that would be a pair of scissors, small scissors
and an forceps, like a tweezers.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Do they have serrated surfaces on them?

*MR. SIMS:* Actually they are fairly smooth and sharp.

*MR. HARMON:* Why is that?

*MR. SIMS:* So they cut well.

*MR. HARMON:* Is there an aversion to using things with serrated edges
or surfaces in processing evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it gives you more surface that you have to worry about.

*MR. HARMON:* Why do you flame your tools?

*MR. SIMS:* The reason I flame my tools is to remove absolutely any
possibility that somehow in some way some minute trace could be carried
over from sample to sample.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you always done that?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Do you feel that you cross-contaminated any samples before
you started flaming your tools?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, foundation, relevance.

*THE COURT:* I will sustain the objection. Why don't you ask some
foundational questions regarding that.

*MR. HARMON:* Are you aware of any cross-contamination between samples
that you induced by not flaming your tools?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. HARMON:* Let's--let's talk about not flaming your tools and inject
substrate controls into that process. What safeguard do the existence or
the availability of substrate controls to type all the way through the
process--what impact do they have on detecting cross-contamination, if
it occurs?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, they are a safeguard because if one were to cut
the stain, wipe the scissors, for example, then those scissors would be
next to a substrate control and again that substrate control is very
vulnerable, and if anything is going to get contaminated, it is the
substrate control.

*MR. HARMON:* Why is that?

*MR. SIMS:* Because it should have no DNA to begin with. I mean it
could--you could have a substrate control that had DNA to begin with,
but assuming there is no DNA to begin with, whatever you put down is now
its DNA, so in other words whatever type now shows up could be it has
become that type.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. And let's take--stay on the same topic and not talk
about flaming tools, but talk about just wiping tools with water.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* You have a three-step wiping process. If one were to just
wipe with water and systematically alternate between an evidence stain
and a substrate control, what safeguard does that substrate control
provide in ensuring that no cross-contamination has occurred?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, it should provide a safeguard in that it should then
monitor for any contamination.

*MR. HARMON:* And if the substrate controls test clean, as they did in
this case, what assurance or what do you conclude from the possibility
that the cross-contamination did not occur in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, it is another piece of evidence that you are not
contaminating those samples.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, my next to the last subject here, in your
conventional serology expertise have you testified about the genetic
marker EAP?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have.

*MR. HARMON:* How many times?

*MR. SIMS:* I couldn't give a number on EAP in particular, but it was a
commonly used enzyme in the days that I did conventional serology.

*MR. HARMON:* And are you familiar with the scientific literature on
that subject?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I am. I have--I used to be much more familiar with it
than I am now, but yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. If you could describe the marker EAP and what a
forensic scientists should be aware of in that context, what would be
your brief statement of the use of EAP?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think one has to be very careful in interpreting EAP
band patterns. It is subject to certain--it is an unusual marker in that
it is--there are certain intensities as well as band positional things
that we have to take into account. I think Mr. Matheson probably went
into that in great detail, but it is unusual in that the intensities are
an important part of the interpretation and the relative instabilities
of certain bands.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Have you reviewed Mr. Matheson's records on this
subject?

*MR. SIMS:* I have reviewed some of his records, yes.

*MR. HARMON:* And do you have those records with you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. HARMON:* Could I see them?

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, do you want to take a look?

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, yeah.

*/MR. SIMS:/*/(Witness complies.)/

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could we have these items marked as exhibit next in
order, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* All right. People's 273.

/(Peo's 273 for id = records)/

//*MR. HARMON:* There is actually two items, your Honor. I will describe
them. Mr. Matheson's analyzed evidence report dated October 18, and I
will count the pages--

*MR. SCHECK:* Is anything being put in that wasn't previously put in
when Mr. Matheson testified?

*MR. HARMON:* No. They are the same items. We can refer to them. Maybe
Mr. Scheck can confirm they are the same items. I don't have to mark them.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* Maybe we can refer to those prior.

*THE COURT:* If it is already marked--

*MR. HARMON:* It is. I just hadn't shown the exact exhibits to Mr. Sims,
so--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* I would prefer that we use the exhibits that were
previously introduced through the prior witness.

*THE COURT:* Previously marked.

*MR. SCHECK:* For foundational matters.

*MR. HARMON:* Sure. One of the exhibits is an electrophoretogram marked
224-A.

*THE COURT:* You are withdrawing 273 at this point?

*MR. HARMON:* Yes, I am, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Peo's 273 for id = withdrawn)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* We are going to have to mark Mr. Matheson's report
because it is more complete than the exhibit that was marked, your
Honor. I will count the pages.

*THE COURT:* All right. So we can keep them clear, why don't we make the
additional report an addenda to the original exhibit.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Miss Martinez, do you have the designation of that report?

*MS. MARTINEZ:* One moment, your Honor.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* This item is 23 pages, your Honor. Do you want me to go
ahead, your Honor?

*MS. MARTINEZ:* Your Honor, People's 218.

*THE COURT:* All right. 218. Then the additional report will be 218-A,
the more complete report.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you, your Honor.

/(Peo's 218-A for id = report)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Can we just look at what is new? Just marking for
identification?

*THE COURT:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is all right.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, have you reviewed Mr. Matheson's analyzed
evidence report, and specifically with respect to items 84A and B, some
typing that Mr. Sims did on some fingernail kits?

*MR. SIMS:* That Mr. Matheson did.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Matheson, sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you reviewed the electrophoretogram which is a
picture of the gel that he ran those on?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* Referring to People's 223-A. Electrophoretogram.

*MR. HARMON:* 224-A.

*THE COURT:* 224-A. Got it. Thank you.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, I want to give you a hypothetical--

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* I'm going to put the nail board up there, your Honor.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, why don't you start with my hypothetical, and
when the board is up there I'm going to ask you to look at the board. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Oh, here we have it.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. FAIRTLOUGH:* Your Honor, I think we need to cut the feed for this
board.

*THE COURT:* Yes. I'm going to direct the photographers not to take any
photographs of this board. Thank you. Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Sims, have you had a chance to study the pictures
along the bottom of that board? You have already described how those are
photographs, the top five photographs. Have you had a chance to see the
three along the bottom of Nicole Brown?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I just saw them for the first time the other day.

*MR. HARMON:* Have you had an adequate chance to look at them?

*MR. SIMS:* I would like a moment.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Sure.

*/MR. SIMS:/*/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Could we raise it a little bit, your Honor? It is a
little bit low for the jurors on the end.

*THE COURT:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Sims, you have had a chance to look at Nicole
Brown Simpson's hands and the blood on them, have you?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*THE COURT:* All right. This is People's exhibit which? I forget. Which
one is this? Mr. Sims, could you tell me what the evidence tag says on
the corner?

*MR. SIMS:* 220.

*THE COURT:* 220, thank you.

*MR. HARMON:* You have had a chance to look at these three photos, Mr. Sims?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. I'm going to ask you a question, a hypothetical
question, which--and I would like you to consider the following things
before I ask you the question. Okay? You have considered the
photographs, the three photographs of Nicole Brown Simpson's body and
hands on 220. All right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Also, I would like you to consider the fact that you
observed no tissue in the nail scrapings for--when you saw them and you
processed them for PCR typing in this case. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like you to consider that your PCR results were
consistent with the type of Nicole Brown.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like you to consider that Cellmark's PCR results
were consistent with the types of Nicole Brown.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like you to consider that the three separate
samples which were typed by you and Cellmark all produced consistent
results. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like you to consider the sensitivity differences
between the PCR typing method and the conventional serology marker
typing for EAP. Okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* I would like you to consider that Greg Matheson saw no
tissue when he sampled from the nail scrapings before you.

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained as to that last point.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, there is testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained the objection as to that point.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we approach?

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. HARMON:* That Greg Matheson saw no tissue in the nail scrapings--

*THE COURT:* Same ruling.

*MR. HARMON:* Excuse me, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Same ruling. I'm sustaining the objection to that aspect.
Continue.

*MR. HARMON:* Could we search the transcript?

*THE COURT:* Proceed, counsel.

*MR. HARMON:* Is the--if Greg Matheson saw no tissue--

*THE COURT:* Same question; same objection; same ruling.

*MR. HARMON:* If Greg Matheson only sampled blood when he sampled the
nail scraping kits--okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* And--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* And finally, what you know about the EAP marker and
specifically the BA pattern, okay, we have all those things that I want
you to consider--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.--the question is would you, as a forensic
serologist, exclude Nicole Brown as the source of the blood under her
fingernails and on her fingernails based on Greg Matheson's report and
the electrophoretogram that you reviewed?

*MR. SCHECK:* Objection, foundation as to blood, source of what blood.

*THE COURT:* I think the question is clear to the jury. Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Given all those considerations, my answer would be no.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Mr. Matheson, are you part of some conspiracy to
frame the Defendant in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* My name is Sims, and no, I'm not.

*MR. HARMON:* Sims, I'm sorry. You are conspiring, Mr. Sims? You are not.

*MR. SCHECK:* We will stipulate to that.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay. Thank you. No further questions.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Scheck, do you want to begin now?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, your Honor, we have some things that we haven't shown.

*THE COURT:* All right. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take a brief break
to we organize our exhibits here, so I will ask you to step back in the
jury room, please, and this should only take about five or ten minutes.

/(The jury was excused and the following proceedings were held in open
court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Counsel, we are still in session. All right.
Mr. Scheck, you have some items you want to show counsel?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. I have some fairly simple power point slides, brief
ones, and would the Court--give the Court a copy.

*THE COURT:* All right. Why don't we do this: Mr. Sims, you can step
down. Mr. Scheck, Mr. Harmon, why don't you both confer over these.
Anything else that you are going to use with Mr. Sims?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. And then--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* There are photographs of typing strips that they have
and we have.

*THE COURT:* Well, show them to Mr. Harmon so that he can make sure that
we are talking about the same things here. Anything else?

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I thought that--I know Mr. Sims is looking
at it, but that is not exactly how this is done.

*THE COURT:* All right. Why don't you have a seat, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. COCHRAN:* Judge, Judge, may we approach, Chris and I?

*THE COURT:* Yes.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Barry, rock.

/(A conference was held at the bench, not reported.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors out, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be
seated. All right. Ladies and gentlemen of the jury, good afternoon
again--or good morning. I'm going to take our break for the noon hour at
this time with regards to the jurors. Please remember all of my
admonitions to you. Don't discuss the case amongst yourselves, don't
form any opinions about the case, don't conduct any deliberations until
the matter has been submitted, and do not allow anybody to communicate
with you with regard to the case. And as far as the jury is concerned,
we will stand in recess until one o'clock. All right. Have a nice lunch.
All right. Let me see counsel over at the side bar with the court
reporter, please, Mr. Scheck.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* Okay. I take it--we are over at the side. Mr. Harmon, I
take it you have had no objection to any of the photographs that Mr.
Sims and Mr. Scheck have presented?

*MR. HARMON:* They are handsome photographs. I couldn't object to them.

*THE COURT:* Okay. I have before me a--two pages of miniaturized--I take
it these are boards. Are these going to be--

*MR. SCHECK:* Slides.

*THE COURT:* Video presentations that are no. 1-A through 8-H. And these
are boards which say, for example, 1-A says "cross-contamination
factors." 2-B says "degradation." 3-C says "high DNA content versus low
DNA content." no. 4-D says "different scenes" and has various graphics,
an automobile and then two residences. There is a 5-E, has an exploding
thermometer, plus the--

*MR. HARMON:* That is what?

*MR. SCHECK:* That is a--the same logo that was used in a previous
recitation of a test-tube.

*THE COURT:* Well, that is--I thought you were talking about high
temperature and degradation.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no, no. That is a reference sample tube.

*THE COURT:* Well, 6-F says "suspect reference samples" and then has the
international symbols for man and woman. 7-G is just a series of
numbers. 8-H has "aerosols, paper, gloves, instruments" and then 9-J
combines many of these aspects. Mr. Scheck, I have a problem with the
thermometer.

*MR. SCHECK:* Umm--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I will make it clear that that is a blood
vial and that was a logo that was used previously in one of our exhibits
for the blood vial.

*THE COURT:* Well, my concern, too, is that we don't have an exploding
blood vial or a spewing blood vial. That is beyond the scope here.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the--the way this question is going to be formed has
to do with the testimony--well, first of all, the--the questions of the
witness will have to do with statements in his protocol and in the
AMP-FLP type user guide and in the other publications about reference
samples and test-tubes and their proximity to evidence samples and rules
about not combining them. Also, there is testimony in the case with
respect to Greg Matheson testified that opening the tops of reference
tubes should be done with chem wipes because they have sprays that come
when you open the top of the reference tube, and he testified to that
when he was talking about the amount of blood.

*THE COURT:* Let me ask, rock, what are your--

*MR. HARMON:* Well, this is entertaining, but it is argument. Can we
borrow a phrase that we were talking about a while ago? It is also
redundant argument. The words are fine, although I think that is still
argument. Up there on the chart, something that actually illustrates the
phenomena, that is okay, the degradation, but 3-C, that looks like the
scales of justice and we don't talk about justice, because it is hard to
talk about, but that just looks like the scales of justice. That is a
symbol of something that has no place on this chart. There is a place
for it, but it is not on this chart. Everybody knows what a house and a
truck and a house look like, but the point I'm making, all these
together is that you can jumble them until they are together in 9-J and
it looks like a Sunday morning cartoon thing and says whose name is this
spelled out by and the symbols, and I wrote in on 6-E should put
"hombres" and "mujeres" because that looks like the bathroom signs, so
it is misleading because we don't want people to think that is what they
have to do here. It is just a suspect reference sample. The tube, I
agree with you, the whole thing is just as argumentative as the boards
that I put forth that you kept out. I don't really disagree with you,
that you kept these out, but this is just argument that words can
illustrate, but I don't know. Maybe there is danger if you connect the
dots on those it will spell guilty. On 9-J there is probably something
cryptic in here that we are not aware of, but I think words and clear
non-argumentative symbols are what is appropriate to this by the jury,
but not the stuff that you all combine together. That is 9-J is clearly
argumentative. It is just a compilation of things that may or may not
have any application to this case. And this would be beautiful argument
material, just like our boards that were used for that point, but at
this point I think that dazzling people with these slides, which may or
may not be a basis for this testimony, you know, this--we might be
having this discussion at a later point when they say I'm going to have
a witness who is going to say all these things happened, but this is
cross-examination of our witnesses, and these symbols are going to be up
there whether or not Gary Sims admits that they are factors to consider,
and I think that changes the picture completely.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* These are all taken right out of his protocol and the
guides as precautions, and all that these symbols are, are visual aids,
just like the blood drops on their board, et cetera. If we already used
most of these in previous displays--the only ones that we haven't are
the houses and the car and the man and the woman which I think in a
piece of paper--and there are certain limitations one has in terms of
clip art, but I think that these all roughly approximate what it is, and
I will ask questions with respect to the blood vial indicating exactly
what is at issue. Those are the DQ-Alpha strips--pictures of it I'm not
going to introduce--these are just the strips, the pictures that Dr.
Blake took.

*THE COURT:* Okay. I'm going to sustain the objection to 5-E, the
exploding thermometer.

*MR. SCHECK:* Can we--

*THE COURT:* I don't think that is--

*MR. SCHECK:* Can we try to--we have certain limitations to our clip art.

*THE COURT:* Well, life in the big city.

*MR. SCHECK:* We will try to change that one maybe to just--

*THE COURT:* If it is just a test-tube, that is one thing, but--

*MR. NEUFELD:* We have a test-tube.

*THE COURT:* That is a spin on the evidence.

*MR. SCHECK:* We have a test-tube and we will substitute that.

*THE COURT:* Let me see it when we come back.

*MR. HARMON:* Judge, could we--this has happened consistently. Can we
get a disk copy of this and can we also get a color copy? We asked
Howard and he said it would take some time and I notice he is gone.

*MR. HARRIS:* It has already started to print.

*MR. SCHECK:* We will just change the blood vial.

*MR. HARMON:* Then I have no objection to the strips because they are
DOJ record.

*MR. SCHECK:* I would actually make a request that we--your Honor, I
would like them to produce copies of Mr. Sims' strips of the same
photographs. If you recall, this actually happened during DNA discovery
where we gave them more than they gave us in terms of proficiency. I
think 3000 pages worth.

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* But the point is, is that we were forced to rely on Dr.
Blake's photographs of these strips. Now some of the interpretations of
these strips are going to come into issue and I want to see their
photographs of the same strips, so that I'm not put in a position--

*THE COURT:* All right. Does Sims have them with him? Mr. Sims?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Do you have the photographs of the PCR strips in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do have those with me.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Judge, now the only problem is, you know, he has got
everything. He has got hundreds of things and so it is nice to have
notice because he has got to eat lunch; too. We have everything, but the
timing of how we get it, it gets complicated, and that is why a courtesy
notice--

*MR. SCHECK:* I did.

*THE COURT:* Well, if it is not too much trouble, see if you've got the
photos for the PCR strips for here.

*MR. HARMON:* For which?

*MR. SCHECK:* The ones--

*MR. HARMON:* Can I talk to them about them?

*MR. SCHECK:* I just want to get just these copies.

*THE COURT:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Have them down here when we come back.

*THE COURT:* All right. We will stand in recess.

*MR. HARMON:* Okay.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

/(At 11:55 A.M. the noon recess was taken until 1:30 P.M. of the same day.)/

//*LOS ANGELES, CALIFORNIA; THURSDAY, MAY 18, 1995 1:00 P.M.*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

*APPEARANCES*: (Appearances as heretofore noted.)

(Janet M. Moxham, CSR no. 4855, official reporter.)

(Christine M. Olson, CSR no. 2378, official reporter.)

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right, counsel. Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry. We have substituted the--a test tube for the
exploding blood vial.

*THE COURT:* No. The thermometer, bursting thermometer.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thermometer.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Harris, do you have that?

*MR. HARRIS:* Yes, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Let me see it. Let's have it quiet in the courtroom, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Any other comment?

*MR. HARMON:* Other than the ones that we made before, that they're
argumentative in total, your Honor, none.

*THE COURT:* All right. Thank you, counsel. All right. Objection's
overruled given the modification.

*MR. HARMON:* Mr. Harris has agreed to give us a copy of that on disk so
that we can use it too.

*THE COURT:* Yes. All right. Anything else?

*MR. HARMON:* A couple points, your Honor. I'd like--it appears that the
electrophoretogram that we showed is a similar photograph taken at a
different time than the one that Mr. Sims looked at. So I would like to
mark the one that he presented as the one he reviewed. They're photos of
the same thing, but they're different photos. And just to--because this
is what he viewed, I'd like to have that marked.

*THE COURT:* All right. That would be 273.

/(Peo's 273 for id = electrophoretogram)/

//*MR. HARMON:* And then the only other point that I have, your Honor--I
don't want to reask the question, but depending on cross-examination, I
have to. In fact, Mr. Matheson said he didn't see any tissue when he
sampled it on page 25403 and 25404. So I think the point was made in my
question to Mr. Sims, but--

*THE COURT:* I think you got the point there was--he tested only for
blood or tested only blood particles there. I'll look at that over the
recess if you'll give me the--

*MR. HARMON:* I have a copy of those pages.

*THE COURT:* All right. I think we've cleared it up, but I don't think--

*MR. HARMON:* I think the question, approximately had the same material,
but--

*THE COURT:* Is that a pun? Never mind.

*MR. SCHECK:* There's one question that I know I'm going to ask
that--maybe pretty soon where I'll need some guidance from the Court
about how to ask it.

*THE COURT:* And what might that question be?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the--when I get to the issues of discussing--well,
can I approach and do that without the--

*THE COURT:* What's the general topic?

*MR. SCHECK:* General topic is handling samples from two different crime
scenes, and I want to find a way--the police and the crime laboratory
personnel or certainly police, probably the crime laboratory personnel,
had certain knowledge in this case with respect to what Mr. Sims said
about the blood at Rockingham prior to handling and conducting an
analysis of samples. And I know that I want to ask this question--

*THE COURT:* Sounds like a touchy area.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's why I'm bringing it to your attention.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you ask to approach when you get to that point then.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. It will be pretty soon, but--

*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors, please.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. The
record should reflect we've been rejoined by all the members of our jury
panel. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*THE COURT:* All right. Mr. Sims, would you resume the witness stand,
please.

/Gary Sims, the witness on the stand at the time of the lunch recess,
resumed the stand and testified further as follows:/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Good afternoon again, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* Good afternoon, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sir, you are reminded you are still under oath. And, Mr.
Scheck, you may commence your cross-examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen of the jury.

*THE JURY: *Good afternoon.

*_CROSS-EXAMINATION BY MR. SCHECK_*

*__MR. SCHECK:* Good afternoon, Mr. Sims. How are you, sir?

*MR. SIMS:* Fine. Good afternoon to you.

*MR. SCHECK:* Pleasure to see you. Mr. Sims, the socks you're aware in
this case were first collected by the Los Angeles Police Department on
June 13th?

*MR. SIMS:* That's my understanding, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they were cut and tested by--for--with conventional
serology by Greg Matheson on September 21st?

*MR. SIMS:* That's my understanding, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they were sent to you on September 26th?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that's the correct date.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the fingernail scrapings and clippings, items 84, you
received from the Los Angeles Police Department after they'd been tested
by Greg Matheson?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's my understanding.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you received one set of Bronco swatches that were
collected on June 14th?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I believe we received several sets from the Bronco. Is
there a specific item number?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, set of items number in the 20's through 31, weren't
those all collected on June 14th by Dennis Fung and Andrea Mazzola?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just looking from your records of the labelings on the
bindles and coin envelopes, you got one set of samples that indicated
they were first collected on June 14th?

*MR. HARMON:* Same objections. Hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Why don't you rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. Did you receive a set of samples that had notations
on them indicating they were collected on June 14th from the Bronco?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall the date of June 14th being on those samples.

*MR. SCHECK:* On the coin envelopes.

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall that being on the coin envelopes because
I--no, I don't. I don't. Is there a specific item number? I'll look it up.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Why don't we take a look at, for example, item
no. 31.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Okay. That's on my notes, page 23, the initial examination.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Let's try it this way, Mr. Sims. You received swatches
from the Bronco that had LAPD item numbers in--with two digits?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* From the 20's into the 30's?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Then you received a second set that had three
digits in terms of their item numbers in the 300's?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. And do your notes reflect that those two sets of
swatches were collected at different times?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, speculation, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* You received items 115, 116 and 117, swatches from the
rear gate?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And from examining the coin envelopes and bindles, are you
aware that those were collected on July 3rd?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, speculation, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* From your records, do you have information that the glove
from Rockingham, the right-hand glove, item no. 9, was examined, handled
and cut by Collin Yamauchi of the Los Angeles Police Department on June
14th?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Hearsay, speculation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you see initials on the glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Did you see in the packaging from the glove an
indication that Mr. Yamauchi had handled those on June 14th?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, speculation, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Items 47, 48, 49, 50 and 52 your reco--are swatches from
Bundy?

*MR. SIMS:* That's my understanding, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And on the coin envelopes that you received, there was a
date associated with those items of June 13th?

*MR. SIMS:* I--excuse me. I don't believe that date was on those coin
envelopes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh. With respect to the biological material that you
tested on any of the items that you've testified here about today and
the last few days, you do not know how any of the biological material
got on those items, do you?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you have no idea when the biological material got on
those items, do you, from your own personal knowledge?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* And there is no test that you can conduct on a specimen
containing the biological material to tell you if it was there when it
was--biological material was there when it was first collected or
whether it got there through cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, once a specimen like a swatch has been
cross-contaminated such that the biological material on it, all
right--withdrawn. Once a swatch has been cross-contaminated with
biological material and it's received at your laboratory and you test
it, you're going to get typing results that reflect the cross-contaminant?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That's vague.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. If you receive a swatch that contains
biological material from a cross-contamination, if you do your job
correctly and don't contaminate it yourself in the laboratory, you
should get the--in your DNA typing results, the genotypes from the
biological material of the cross-contaminant?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That's vague as to amounts.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have a swatch that contains biological evidence.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Sufficient to get a DNA typing result.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That biological material came from a cross-contamination.
Are you with me?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. If you do not do anything to contaminate the
sample in your laboratory, when you perform a DNA test, you should get
in your typing results the genotypes associated with that biological
material that came from the cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, as long as there was enough from the contamination to
get a typing result.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* If you had a sufficient biological material there to get a
PCR typing result, you'd find it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Same with RFLP?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, if the cross-contaminant on that swatch after you
tested it and did nothing to contaminate it were then given to a second
laboratory, they should still get the same result you got assuming that
they did not in their own laboratory analysis contaminate the sample?

*MR. SIMS:* That's true.

*MR. SCHECK:* And if we gave it to a fourth and a fifth laboratory, as
long as there was still enough material to test, they should all get the
same result?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now you're assuming that the contamination would be
uniform across, for example, a swatch.

*MR. SCHECK:* Say you have enough biological material, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So--and if one of those laboratories, let's say the second
laboratory in were Dr. Blake's laboratory, he should get the same result
you got?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* If he give it to Dr. Lee's laboratory, he should get the
same result you got?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, with the proviso that this is a uniformed contamination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, would you agree that in terms of multiple testing by
laboratories, that the reliability of the testing is no stronger than
the weakest link in that chain?

*MR. SIMS:* That's a pretty general question, but in essence, yes, I
would agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And if a cross-contamination occurred to the
Los Angeles Police Department for a specimen in this case, you tested
it, then a series of subsequent labs tested it, that would not in any
way rectify the first cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Inadequate basis for that hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* When you mention that kind of contamination, you're saying
some kind of genomic DNA contamination?

*MR. SCHECK:* Genomic DNA contamination.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And when we're talking about genomic DNA
contamination, so the jury understands, we're talking about a situation
where one would get let's say blood from one source onto another specimen.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it would have to be another bloodstain as opposed to
like one of the substrate controls or--

*MR. SCHECK:* No. Onto another biological specimen, another specimen--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. So bloodstain to bloodstain.

*MR. SCHECK:* Bloodstain to bloodstain.

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. Gentlemen, you need to allow Mr. Scheck to
finish answering--excuse me--asking the question, and Mr. Scheck--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* Sorry, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* So the answer is yes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. And that's to distinguish it from, you were talking
about at the end of your examination, something called PCR carry-over
contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's a separate matter?

*MR. SIMS:* That's a separate issue.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you--your primary area of expertise is criminalistics
and forensic serology?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, and now I would add forensic DNA analysis to that too.

*MR. SCHECK:* But when we say "criminalistics," that's been your primary
training?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's been what you've been doing in the various
different laboratories where you've worked?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You do not hold yourself out to this jury as an expert in
molecular genetics?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I would not.

*MR. SCHECK:* You do not hold yourself out to this jury as an expert in
population genetics?

*MR. SIMS:* Only with regards to the application of population genetics,
but I would not consider myself a population geneticist, no.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. You do not hold yourself out to this jury as an
expert in statistics or biostatistics?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I don't see that as my specialty, no.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. You do not hold yourself out to this jury as an
expert in clinical medicine?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* You do not hold yourself out to this jury as an expert in
the application of PCR base techniques to samples in clinical medicine?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I do not.

*MR. SCHECK:* By training and experience, your focus over the last
decade has been the methods that a crime laboratory ought to use in
handling forensic samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That's part of my background. Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, a part? Wouldn't that be a major focus of all the
work you've done?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think the way you phrased that, there's a lot more
to what I do than just what you mentioned.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh--well, I don't mean to--to--to limit it. In fact, you
take great pride in being somebody that has expertise in methods that a
crime laboratory ought to use when handling forensic specimens for
purposes of conventional serology testing or forensic DNA testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I--I--I think that hinges on, you saying I take pride
in that, I guess I do take some pride in that, but that's not--that's
not me.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, that is an area that you're holding yourself out to
this jury as having expertise on?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, yes, I would agree to that. But you started by saying
it's something I pride myself on, and--

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I was--

*MR. SIMS:* I'll thank you for the compliment.

*MR. SCHECK:* --trying to be nice?

*THE COURT:* Well, while you're trying to be nice, you're talking at the
same time again.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's because we're--

*MR. SIMS:* Sorry, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, as an expert in crime laboratory procedures, you
would agree, would you not, that there are certain factors which can
create a risk of cross-contamination when handling forensic samples in a
laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that there are certain methods and precautions that
ought to be followed to prevent cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I would like to--where are the numbers on those?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* I have a series of slides I would like to display to the
jury and the witness. Could we call--should we call them collectively
1159, and then I'll do 1159-A, B and C?

*THE COURT:* 1159.

/(Deft's 1159-A though I = slides)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Could we show 1159-A.

*MR. SCHECK:* I guess this is the departure point for our discussion,
cross-contamination factors.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could we now see 1159-B.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, would you not agree that degradation of a crime
scene specimen is an important factor to consider with respect to the
issue of cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, degradation by itself is a factor in that if there's
very little DNA there, one would have to be more worried about what
could happen to that particular sample, that's true.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And in this particular slide, in the box, red
box no. 1, I'd ask you to regard that as a blood swatch containing the
DNA of person no. 1 and then the arrow indicates a process of
degradation where the biological material that would show up on a DNA
typing test has been degraded to the point where it's not detectable.

*MR. SIMS:* So it's no longer detectable.

*MR. SCHECK:* No longer detectable.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And a swatch such as the one on the right-hand
side where the biological material has been degraded to the point where
it is no longer detectable is the kind of sample that one should take
great care in handling in a forensic laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because when you have a degraded sample like that, the
dangers and the risk of cross-contamination increases?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you. Could we have 259-B.

*THE COURT:* C.

*MR. SCHECK:* C. Thank you. C.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Now, another consideration in the question of
cross-contamination is trying to separate those samples that have high
DNA content from those that have low DNA content?

*MR. SIMS:* That's true. That is a consideration.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because when one is handling samples that have a high DNA
content and there's an inadvertent transfer to samples that have a low
DNA content, cross-contamination can occur by accident?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That is a concern. In other words, that the high one
could contaminate the low one.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And so as much as you can, you would want to, in
your practice in the crime laboratory, separate out those samples that
have high DNA content from low DNA content when you've handling them?

*MR. SIMS:* Yeah--well, especially when you're doing the DNA extraction.
That's where we are most concerned with that in our laboratory.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, when you're handling the samples when they're wet.

*MR. SIMS:* What kind of sample would that be?

*MR. SCHECK:* Blood swatches.

*MR. SIMS:* When blood swatches are wet--and now you're talking about a
swatch that has a lot of DNA on it that's wet and a swatch that has a
lot less DNA, and that's also wet?

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's make it in this hypothetical wet or somewhat dryer.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think--I think at some point, you have to realize
that you're--it's--it's--it's--it's like taking universal precautions.
Sort of like when a hospital looks at blood samples, they assume every
sample has aids. That's what's called universal precautions. And so you
have to take what I would consider universal precautions whether you've
got a swatch that has high or low because you don't know. You don't know
the content.

*MR. SCHECK:* This is the effort to separate samples that have high DNA
content from low DNA content, is a precaution you try to follow in your
laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. But that's, particularly in our laboratory, when we're
talking about DNA extraction. That's the main point there because that's
when you turn this into a liquid sample.

*MR. SCHECK:* When you're cut--you are actually handling and examining
samples, don't you try to take reasonable care to divide up those
samples that have high DNA content from low DNA content?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Vague as to handling and sampling, and
compound, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Compound.

*MR. SCHECK:* No. Examine.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, for example, when I look at a garment that I might
take a bloodstain from, that bloodstain may be a high level bloodstain.
But then I would also, right next to it on the same garment, have a
substrate control area that would be considered a low level. So when
you're talking about examining items, I see that as different than when
you're talking about extracting DNA. Those are two separate issues to me.

*MR. SCHECK:* When--you would agree--so examining is when you're just
looking at them?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then you get to the point where you might actually cut a
sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Such as a glove.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Such as a swatch.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you not agree at the point where you cut a sample,
that you should take precautions to separate items that have high DNA
content and low DNA content?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. At that level, I would agree with that. And what I tend
to do is work on one item at a time so that they're separated in that
manner.

*MR. SCHECK:* And as you indicated, that when you then move from the
point of cutting the samples to the point of processing or analyzing
them, you also want to take special concern to separate samples that
have high DNA content from those that have low DNA content?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You're familiar with a--something called the amplitype
user guide?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I am.

*MR. SCHECK:* What is the amplitype user kind?

*MR. SIMS:* The amplitype user guide is provided by the company that
actually makes the PCR kits that are used in forensic science, and that
user guide is usually provided to the students who take the course.

*MR. SCHECK:* This is like a basic fundamental text on how to use, in
this instance, PCR base techniques?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Although the discussion that we've having about separating
samples of high and low content and degradation would apply to RFLP
testing as well as PCR testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it is more of a concern in PCR testing, I would say
that. But yes, it's always a concern.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you saying that it's not a concern that you could get
genomic DNA cross-contamination for purposes of RFLP testing?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Argumentative, misstates his testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in that amplitype guide, is there not, the very
beginning of it, a section indicating "special precautions"? Recall that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in that "special precautions," does not the kit
indicate that performing DNA extractions from samples containing--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you recall any specific guidance given in the amplitype
user guide with respect to separating samples containing high DNA
content and low DNA content when performing extractions?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* What does it say?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Want to just add a few foundational questions here?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, is this a--the precautions listed in the amplitype
user guide, be ones that you would rely upon as a forensic DNA analyst?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I'd be careful about saying everything that's in
there, but the bulk of that material, by all means.

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't we--why don't I just--

*THE COURT:* Why don't you show him the specific page that you're
talking about.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. I'll--we'll get it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't you take a look at section 2.2.2 on page 2 of
the guide.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Would you rely--and I'm calling your attention
to paragraph 1 and call your attention to the--I think it's just about
the last sentence there that begins "perform DNA extractions from
samples." is that a precaution that you would rely upon that's in the
user guide?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And that precaution states that--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* --that one should perform DNA extraction from samples
containing high levels of DNA, for example, whole blood, separately from
samples containing a low level DNA, single hair, small bloodstains, et
cetera, to minimize the potential for sample-to-sample contamination.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you agree with that; do you not?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when we're talking here about extraction, we're
talking about that stage in the process where you take the little
cuttings and you put them into these test tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think at this point, they're saying you've already
got it in the test tube.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. When you pour the reagents in?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* During that period of the analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. SCHECK:* Could we turn to D?

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you have samples from different crime scenes?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you take special care when examining the samples to
try to examine them separately?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't see how one could examine those samples
how--you would have to do it separately. There's three different
locations that I'm seeing. I see a little blue car and I see two little
houses like monopoly.

*MR. SCHECK:* There are limitations to computer clip-art, Mr. Sims.

*MR. SIMS:* But--but there are--

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't you--who don't you assume the blue car white--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --and assume one of those houses looks like Bundy and the
other one looks like Rockingham.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right? Now, wouldn't you agree that in terms of these
little swatches that you get from different scenes, that just even in
examining them, it would be good laboratory practice to examine them
separately?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. One at a time.

*MR. SCHECK:* And wouldn't it be good laboratory process--practice when
cutting these swatches to separate the swatches that you get from
different scenes?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I think that again goes more to the extraction perhaps.
That's--that's what I did in this case as much as possible; is I kept
the Bronco samples by themselves, I kept the Bundy stuff by itself, I
kept the Rockingham stuff by itself. The only time I violated that was
the very first set of extraction--set of extractions when there was one
Bundy drop and I think one Rockingham drop. But I think--I think as long
as you're doing them one at a time when you're cutting them and then
putting that sample away and making sure you have a clean surface, I
think that's okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. Well, we'll get to what you do and cutting them one
at a time and keeping clean surfaces. But just as a general practice,
what you try to do as much as possible, even at the stage when you got
the samples, was process the samples from the different scenes each
separately?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when samples first come into a crime laboratory and
you're let's say cutting swatches, it would be good practice to make
sure that you cut the swatches from one scene separately from those of
another scene?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, again, I think as long as you work on them one at a
time, that's okay. I don't think it's--it's bad practice necessarily to
look at two swatches in a row as long as you clean up where you're
working and you clean up your tools between each sample.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, we'll talk about cleaning and changing gloves and
the rest of it. But let's just talk as a general practice, you try to
keep the samples from different scenes separate?

*MR. SIMS:* In general, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because--now, let's assume that one set of samples from
one scene are severely degraded and another set of samples from another
scene are not.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Wouldn't it heighten the risk of cross-contamination if
you sampled those swatches from different scenes in the same time and in
the same location?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Insufficient basis for that question, improper
hypothetical, calls for speculation, it's argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Would it heighten under that--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Heighten the risk.

*MR. SIMS:* Under that hypothet--

*MR. SCHECK:* Under that hypothetical.

*MR. SIMS:* Under that hypothetical, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, this is the point where I have to approach to
clarify.

*THE COURT:* All right. With the court reporter, please.

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. We're over at the sidebar. What are you about
to go into, Mr. Scheck?

*MR. SCHECK:* I propose to ask a question in this form: If you had
information that--one, that a suspect had indicated that one set of
samples contained his blood and you were processing another set of
samples whose origin was unknown, would you want to make sure that you
separate it in examination, cutting of those samples?

*MR. HARMON:* There's no basis for that in the evidence that's been
presented, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I would like to establish--

*MR. HARMON:* Improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Hold on. I was asking Mr. Scheck to be quiet while I heard
your comment. Mr. Harmon.

*MR. HARMON:* It's an improper hypothetical. There's no evidence for that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, I think there is. We know from the facts
already that Detective Lange and Detective Vannatter had a conversation
with Mr. Simpson at 1:39 in the afternoon where Mr. Simpson told them
while at Rockingham the blood drops on the--trail on the Rockingham
driveway were from him. Detective Lange indicated he had conversations
about the evidence in this case with Mr. Matheson and Mr. Yamauchi and
Mr. Fung the next morning, that Mr. Fung was made aware of this. And so
what I want to do is just ask this question in limited form that doesn't
bring out the statement just as a predicate for developing when
additional witnesses come in. I think we already have a good faith basis
for the record. I would just limit it that way so there's no implication
about a statement, just information.

*MR. HARMON:* The form of the question is also somewhat argumentative. I
mean we have the results. If they want to concede that these things were
tested properly, then maybe we can stipulate to that. But, you know,
it's the form of the question, "if you had information." he didn't have
any information. He didn't encounter that. You're asking him to
speculate what he would have done. He wasn't in that position.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, I appreciate your bringing this to the Court's
attention because this is obviously a touchy area because it goes to
statements made--allegedly made by the Defendant to the police
detectives. The problem we have is, that statement is not before the
jury at this time. I--in fact, I don't know to this day what Mr. Simpson
is alleged to have said to the police detectives other than what I have
inadvertently come across in the news media. But--

*MR. SCHECK:* The issue is that I don't want to introduce it right now,
but it's--what's important here for purposes of the DNA evidence--and
it's a critical point--is that these police and laboratory technicians
had knowledge that Mr. Simpson had said that the Rockingham drops were
his, and they processed them at the same time as they did the unknown
samples, creating a serious risk of cross-contamination. This is a
critical point of our Defense as I'm sure everybody is well aware, one
set being degraded and the other set, particularly item no. 12, which
was picked up, the last series of swatches, from inside his house being
far less degraded. So the point is, there's danger of
cross-contamination. My formulation of this question in the hypothetical
form only has to do with what good laboratory practices would be, and so
I want to formulate the question in a way that is as neutral as possible
in terms of drawing an implication. All I want to ask him is if he had
information, he would have tried this. But I wanted to be super
cautious; if you had information that one set of samples--all
right--that a suspect had said one set of samples or had information
that one set of samples came from a suspect and another were from an
unknown origin, would you take special care to examine, process those
separate. That is the question I want to ask him.

*MR. HARMON:* That's asked and answered. This might be--this might be
okay next week when Collin Yamauchi testifies. I don't think there's a
basis for asking him--

*THE COURT:* At this point, at this time, I'm going to sustain the
objection. Okay. Off the record.

/(An off the record discussion was held at the bench.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, you may proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, if you had one set of samples, blood swatches
that were collected from bloodstains that came from inside a house on a
clean wood surface--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --and they were collected between an hour and a half to
two hours before the time that you began handling the swatches,
examining and handling the swatches, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. They were collected about two hours before--

*MR. SCHECK:* Before you began handling and manipulating the wet blood
swatches, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Back at the laboratory?

*MR. SCHECK:* Back at the laboratory.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then you add another set of samples that had been
collected seven hours before you got to the laboratory. All right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That came off concrete substrates.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* There was possibility of exposure to soil and bacteria.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That were packaged in plastic bags.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Left in those plastic bags for seven hours.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you agree that, number one, the samples that came
from those plastic bags that were collected seven hours earlier, there's
a good chance that they would be more degraded than the swatches that
had been collected three hours earlier from inside a home?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for speculation. "good chance" is
somewhat vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, in your opinion as a criminalist, would you regard
one--the set of swatches that came out--that came off the substrates,
put in the plastic bags, collected seven hours earlier, would you expect
those to be more degraded than the samples that had been collected only
three hours before you handled them that came off a clean wooden floor?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's incomplete about the packaging of those
samples, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* And those samples that came off the clean wooden floor had
been put into plastic bags, if those were about an hour and a half, in
that plastic bag for about an hour, hour and a half.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. So as part of the hypothetical, the floor is very clean.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* The sidewalk is very dirty.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, I don't--let's just say dirty.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. That the floor is very clean.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. And then the question is, would I expect the ones on
the sidewalk that had been packaged to be degraded?

*MR. SCHECK:* The ones on the sidewalk that had been put in plastic
bags, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* For seven hours.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Before you examined them.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Versus the ones that came off the clean floor that had
been in the plastic bag for only an hour, an hour and a half?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. Yes, I think you would expect the ones from the
sidewalk to be more degraded.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's turn to--oh, well, before we do, and--and it would
be a good precaution in the laboratory if those samples that I've
described, one's in the plastic bag for seven hours off the dirtier
substrate, one's in a plastic bag for an hour, hour and a half off the
clean substrate, both came from different scenes, would be good
laboratory practice not to examine and cut those in the same time--same
time and the same place?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Same time and same place is compound. It's also
vague.

*MR. SCHECK:* The same time.

*MR. HARMON:* The same time is vague.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'll take it one at a time.

*MR. HARMON:* The same time is vague.

*THE COURT:* Wait. You guys are talking at the same time as well. Why
don't you rephrase the question. It is vague as to when you say handled.
I mean, do we mean processed them all at the same time? Separately? How?

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. If you were to take those two sets of samples
that we've discussed, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And take them out of plastic bags--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --without regard to whether you handled one from one scene
before or after handling one from the other, would that be a good
laboratory practice that--withdrawn. If you handle them one from one
scene, take them out of the plastic bags, putting them in test tubes,
all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then you took another one from another scene, took it out
of the plastic bag, put it in a test tube, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* During the same period of time on the same work surface,
without changing paper, without changing gloves, would that be a sound
laboratory practice in your opinion?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. During the same period of time is vague, your
Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled. I think you understand the question.

*MR. SIMS:* I'm not sure I do, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Well, why don't you ask for a clarification.

*MR. SIMS:* Can you just rephrase that one or just repeat the question?

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's take sample no. 1 from the seven-hour scene.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* It's in a plastic bag, swatches in a plastic bag.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You're on a work--you're taking these out of a plastic
bag. You have a piece of paper on the table.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You're wearing gloves.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Plastic gloves. You take a test tube and you stick it into
that plastic bag and get the wet swatches by manipulation into the test
tube.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's the process you use.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You take that from crime scene no. 1 that has the swatches
that have been in the plastic bags for seven hours, okay?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then without changing gloves, without changing the paper
below, you move to the plastic bag containing the samples from the
second scene.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Use the same method of taking the test tube, going into
the plastic bag, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Manipulating it so you get the swatch out. Then with those
same gloves, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Taking the test tube and packaging it into a coin envelope.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. I understand that. Umm--

*MR. SCHECK:* One second, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Sorry. Why don't you just--in terms of my hypothetical,
why don't you just assume that you handled the swatch, swatches that
were collected an hour, hour and a half before you got to the laboratory
first and then the other sample second.

*MR. SIMS:* So you did them as two separate sets? Is that what you're
saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* You did--plastic bag no. 1, you handled from the--that was
the one that contained the swatches an hour, hour and a half old.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right? Plastic bag no. 2 came from the samples that were
seven hours in the plastic bag from the dirty surfaces.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. So as I understand this now, somebody's taking what I
would call a culture tube? Is that the right size?

*MR. SCHECK:* A test tube.

*MR. SIMS:* Test tube. They're sticking that tube into a plastic
envelope to capture the swatch into that tube?

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. Wet swatch.

*MR. SIMS:* A wet swatch. I would say one should change gloves between
those two sets, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's say you didn't change gloves.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, if you--I mean, the other thing about blood is, it's
very visible, and one may look at the gloves and see whether or not
there was any visible contamination that way.

*MR. SCHECK:* You didn't change gloves. Are you saying, Mr. Sims, that
that's the kind of laboratory practice that you would engage in?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's talk about--let's turn to--like to go actually
to I think it's F, the one that's F. Yes. Now, samples that come from a
victim and samples that come from a suspect, assume they're blood swatches.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You should handle those separately?

*MR. SIMS:* Separately--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague. Separately from what?

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Should you examine those separately?

*MR. HARMON:* Same objection, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Why don't you ask--why don't you clarify that, Mr. Scheck.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's try this. Would you agree that items of
evidence collected from suspects should be handled separately from
evidence samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because this practice guards against sample mix up and
cross-transfer?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have a protocol in your laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we do.

*MR. SCHECK:* It's a detailed protocol?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you familiar with section 6.3 of your protocol?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know the protocol by number, but if you read it to
me, I'll let you know or you show it to me, I'll--

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Section 6.3 of your protocol concerns the examination of
samples.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. SCHECK:* We're just talking now about looking at them and examining
them.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* We're not talking at this stage about cutting them.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* We're not talking at this stage about packaging and
handling them.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now wait. We have to back up. When we're talking about
examining them, there may be some cutting. I'm sorry. I agreed with you
too quickly on that one.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. It's all right.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. We are talking about having the evidence out there and
sampling it.

*MR. SCHECK:* And this section of your own protocol is something you
rely on?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it is.

*MR. SCHECK:* Something you think is a good idea?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in your protocol, does it not state that in general,
the examiner should examine only one item of evidence at a time.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Marking the evidence with the unique identifier.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Returning it to its container before opening another item.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in particular, items of evidence collected from
suspects should be examined separately from victim samples.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's a practice that your protocol indicates will
guard against sample mix up and cross-transfer?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you think that's an important precaution to take
against cross-contamination, don't you?

*MR. SIMS:* Cross-contamination and sample mix up, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And mix-up of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So in terms of this logo which we don't intend to
have--clip-art's limited and it's not supposed to look like men's room
and women's room, all goes. But you agree with this principal that one
should separate suspect, victim samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's turn to E.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, wouldn't you agree that of extraordinary importance
is the need to handle reference samples, be it from a suspect or
victims, separately from evidence samples?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "handled" and "separately" are vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just in terms of--would you try to keep separate the
taking of any blood from a reference sample in terms of the time and
place from the examination, cutting or handling of an evidence sample?

*MR. SIMS:* By that, do you mean, for example, preparing a swatch of the
reference stain or the reference sample?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. SIMS:* That sort of thing? Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is a cardinal rule, isn't it?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't--I don't know if it's a cardinal rule, but it
is an important concept, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's in your protocol?

*MR. SIMS:* It may be. The exact wording, I'm not sure of. But again, I
think it's important.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you familiar--did I give you the amplitype guide?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I have it here.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Why don't you again look at section 2.2.2,
"special precautions."

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Ask you to look at sentence 1.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Starting with, "it is important."

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you rely on that section?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's vague. Rely on for what reason?

*THE COURT:* Overruled. Obviously for the application of this process.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let me make sure I'm pointing to the right sentence.

*THE COURT:* 2.2.2 on page 2.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*/MR. SIMS:/*/Number 1? Oh, okay. (Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* I do agree and I do practice that the DNA extraction will
be separated in time from the reference samples against the evidence
samples, but the PCR setup of evidence samples, it says, "should be
performed at a separate time from the DNA extraction PCR setup of
reference samples." I--I don't--I don't follow that. Usually what I do
is, I put the evidence samples first in a set that I'm going to be doing
the PCR analysis on and then I get to the evidence--I'm sorry--the
reference samples last along the stream so that you don't start upstream
with the reference samples. Instead, they're downstream from that
process. But I do extract them separately, yes. I agree with that part
of that.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's start with this. So it is--you would
agree that it is important that "DNA extraction--"

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, your Honor. He's reading.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* "DNA extraction of evidence samples be performed at a
separate time from DNA extraction of reference samples"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And this precaution will help prevent potential
cross-contamination between evidence samples and reference samples?

*MR. SIMS:* I agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you're familiar with the California association of
crime lab directors open proficiency tests in 1988 and `89?

*MR. SIMS:* I have some familiarity with them, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you have studied the factors that led to false
positives by different DNA laboratories that participated in that open
proficiency test?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's irrelevant, calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Are you aware--have you familiar--without going
into the content yet, have you familiarized yourself with the
circumstances surrounding false positives obtained by the Cellmark
laboratory?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. With respect to false positives arising from
RFLP testing, when a laboratory is handling, at the same time, reference
samples from a suspect and evidence samples, are you aware of false
positives ever arising in that context?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay. It's irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* In other words, am I aware of any documented example of that?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* I--when you were that specific, I couldn't recall that. I--I
am aware of sample mix-ups, but I wasn't sure of the actual what got
mixed up with what.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, before you came in here to testify, Mr. Sims, you
were watching this proceeding on television?

*MR. SIMS:* Some of it, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* When Dr. Cotton was testifying, weren't you upstairs in
the Prosecutor's office watching television in terms of her testimony?

*MR. SIMS:* I actually spent very little time up there watching television.

*MR. SCHECK:* Where did you watch it?

*MR. SIMS:* I watched some of it in my hotel room and I watched a little
bit of it when I was upstairs. But most of the time that I'm upstairs,
I'm not watching the television.

*MR. SCHECK:* Did you watch her testimony?

*MR. SIMS:* Some of it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Watch cross-examination?

*MR. SIMS:* Some of it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Talk about it with the Prosecutors?

*MR. SIMS:* A little bit.

*MR. SCHECK:* In your reading in terms of forensic DNA testing, have you
read literature concerning false positives on the CACLD tests?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's irrelevant, calls for hearsay, 721 of the
evidence code, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Were the false positives in the CACLD tests a matter of
concern to people in the forensic DNA community?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's irrelevant, calls for hearsay, 721 of the
evidence code, assumes facts not in evidence.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm only asking if it was a matter of concern.

*MR. HARMON:* It assumes that--

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* --that he knows it.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You recall when those results were announced?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do, roughly the date, the time.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you recall that you mentioned Dr. Blake?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* He participated in those tests?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, he did.

*MR. SCHECK:* He got a false positive in the first round too?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe it was a false positive, although it may have been
a false negative. I'm not sure, but he did have a problem on one sample
I recall.

*MR. SCHECK:* And he was using PCR?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And Cellmark was using RFLP?

*MR. SIMS:* Cellmark, my understanding, was using RFLP. Dr. Blake was
using PCR DQ-Alpha in the--a different dot blot format than is used now.

*MR. SCHECK:* Did you hear Dr. Cotton's testimony with respect to how
the false positives arose in the CACLD tests?

*MR. SIMS:* You know, I think I missed that part.

*MR. SCHECK:* You did?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I don't recall hearing all that.

*MR. SCHECK:* In your review of the literature with respect to the CACLD
open proficiency tests, did you become aware of a false positive arising
when samples, evidence samples were handled--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Improper foundation, 721, it's hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* With respect to handling reference samples the same time
in the same area as evidence samples, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Isn't that a particularly dangerous practice because the
reference sample has a high concentration of DNA in the whole blood?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's compound, same time and area, it's vague,
same time and area, particularly dangerous practices.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think he's already conceded that.

*THE COURT:* All right. Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* It's also argumentative.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Now, again, could you--when you describe the same--is it
what, the same time and the same place? Is that what you're saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. You discussed before--remember you saying pouring
out a reference sample and making a card in the same area--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --that one is then handling reference samples.

*MR. SIMS:* You mean that one is then handling evidence samples?

*MR. SCHECK:* That's right. Evidence samples.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I think that would not be a good idea.

*MR. SCHECK:* And one of the reasons it's not a good idea is that the
reference sample contains a high concentration of DNA in the whole blood?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And a very small amount of blood, talking microliter--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --that is transferred to an evidence specimen can cause a
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* That's true.

*MR. SCHECK:* A microliter of blood contains how many nanograms high
molecular weight DNA would you estimate?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That would be about 20 nanograms, something like that,
per microliter because it's about 20 microliter--or I'm sorry--about 20
micrograms per mil. So you're taking it down--that sounds right. About
20 nanograms per microliter whole blood.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could be more?

*MR. SIMS:* It could be more. Some people have more, some people have less.

*MR. SCHECK:* And did you hear Dr. Cotton's testimony with respect to
how much DNA was in the evidence lane of item 52 in her RFLP test?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Are you aware of how much DNA was in the
reference lane for 52 in the Cellmark RFLP test?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Still calls for hearsay, no foundation, calls
for speculation.

*THE COURT:* It's also irrelevant. Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Irrelevant?

*THE COURT:* It's already in the record, counsel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well--that's the point.

*THE COURT:* If you want to pose it as a hypothetical of a particular
nanogram--

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* If there were cross-contam--

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you. It's a long day.

*MR. SCHECK:* If there's cross-contamination of microliter particle
blood to a swatch, that could cause as much as 20 nanograms, 25
nanograms high molecular weight DNA to be on a swatch?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you can get RFLP results from as little as 25 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* On a good day, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--and of course, it would--you can get PCR results on
how much DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* In our laboratory, the limit we would test would be down in
the--what we would call 300 picograms which is 0.3 nanograms.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's talk small here. A nanogram is a billionth of a gram?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* So what's a picogram?

*MR. SIMS:* That's a trillionth of a gram.

*MR. SCHECK:* Can you see it with the naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* You wouldn't see the DNA, no.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could you see the amount of blood that it would take
to--for--from which one could get--what did you say? How many picograms
could you do?

*MR. SIMS:* 300 picograms.

*MR. SCHECK:* 300 picograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think, make it a little clearer, from a bloodstain
that's about a millimeter by a millimeter, you could get about two
nanograms. So that's 2,000 picograms. So I think that gives you an idea
of how small we're talking about. It's--

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, is that something that you would suspect--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me. Mr. Scheck, I don't think Mr. Sims was finished
answering.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, were you finished? I'm sorry.

*MR. SIMS:* I guess I'm done.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, you're finished?

*MR. SIMS:* I lost the train anyway, so go ahead.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let's get back on the train. The--the size of--you
said 300 picograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* The size of a particle of blood that could create--from
which you could extract 300 picograms of DNA, would that be visible to
the naked eye?

*MR. SIMS:* I think it would be visible, but it would be a speck. I
mean, it's--it's--it's very small.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, and the amount of speck of blood that would give you
two nanograms, it's pretty small too?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now, again, that's about a millimeter by a millimeter,
and that's pretty small, but it's very--it's visible, very visible.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's see. I guess it's--let's turn to G.

*MR. SCHECK:* Another precaution that one takes to prevent
cross-contamination is not to do PCR processing on multiple samples at
the same time?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. PCR processing is vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. In the PCR--let's talk about the PCR process a
little bit.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* One stage, you would literally cut the sample, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* What's the next stage? Would you call that part of the
extraction process?

*MR. SIMS:* No. That would be part of the sampling.

*MR. SCHECK:* Sampling process. What's the next process?

*MR. SIMS:* The next process, once you've got it in the tube, is to go
through the actual extraction of the DNA.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And you do that how?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, in our laboratory, we do that by a procedure that
involves placing the--or adding to that swatch, that stain a solution
that has a soap, a detergent actually in it and an enzyme that chews up
the protein, and that--that releases the DNA, and then that excess
protein is removed by organic reagents, and then we do a purification
step through a ultracentrifugation through a membrane.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just visualizing it then, you take a piece of that
extract, you put it in one of these little microfuge tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* You take a piece of that swatch.

*MR. SCHECK:* Swatch.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. And you put that--

*MR. SCHECK:* Put it in one of the microfuge tubes.

*MR. SIMS:* That's the first--

*MR. SCHECK:* And you add all the things you were just talking about in
that tube?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So you create a whole series of test tubes with
these swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And some of these tubes are the ones that you were talking
about before that you were calling reagent blanks?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. You would include reagent blanks in there.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that would be just the tube that had just the
ingredients, but no swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you're talking about some of those substrate
controls, those would be those little tubes, but they would be the--the
substrate control swatches, not the evidence specimen swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. They would be in there too.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And you would also--you mentioned something,
what you called a quality control, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In our laboratory, we run that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's another swatch?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you cut that swatch up and you put it in another one
of those little tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then after you do what you call the extraction
process, putting the swatches in the tubes and adding the ingredients,
what's the next stage?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, then after you've got that process, you end up with a
solution that has just the DNA. And so then the next stage would be the
evaluation of the DNA as far as quality and quantity.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's called the slot blot?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. For the quantity, that's the slot blot.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Quantity is that--what we call a swat blot
analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* Slot bot.

*MR. SCHECK:* Slot blot. Did I say swat?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Slot blot analysis. You do that for all the tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* If--if you go that route. Sometimes we use a yield gel for
our quantitation.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Or sometimes we've have had a discussion of
something called a yield gel, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's a method by which you get an assessment of the
total amount of DNA in the sample?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct. And--and also the quality of the DNA,
whether it's degraded or not.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And just so we understand what a yield gel,
yield gel tells you the total amount of DNA, but it doesn't tell you
whether that DNA is bacterial or human?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct, unless you do another procedure where you
blot that gel and test it.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And another procedure one can perform after the
yield gel is a--what you call a southern transfer?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And by--that's literally one of those like the RFLP gels
or those little agarose--it's a little agarose gel?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you get little bands just like we saw in the RFLP?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And those little bands, depending on how intense they are,
give you some understanding of how much human DNA as opposed to
bacterial DNA you have?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, if you're doing a slot blot and you're
doing 20--and you try to--withdrawn. Each stage of this procedure,
whatever you're doing, you're going to do to all those different tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* After you do the slot blot or the yield gel or the
southern transfer to that stage, what's the next stage?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, then you would move into the typing stage, and that
would be, for example, the RFLP setup, which is the restriction, or if
you did PCR, that would be the amplification of the DNA.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And if it were PCR, the amplification of DNA,
you take those test tubes and you stick it into that thermocycler machine?

*MR. SIMS:* Thermocycler, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that's what amplifies up--what they call the molecular
Xeroxing of the DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And if you were--and if you were doing "x"
number of tubes to the extraction, the slot blot--then the next thing
when you did the amplification, you would take it and do it with the
same number of tubes, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I mean, assuming you're going to do that with all the
tubes, right. I mean, in other words, you're treating them as a group, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you amplify them up, sometimes that's referred to
sometimes as amplification run?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in terms of this process, is it a good precaution to
limit the quantity of samples you do in a single run to a manageable number?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, vague, "good precaution."

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. How many of these samples did you do at one
time, the most, in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* I have that information if I could have one second to look
it up.

*THE COURT:* And, Mr. Scheck, we'll be taking a break at 2:30.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* The--the greatest number of samples that I analyzed at one
time--and this would include the stains and the substrate controls plus
a QC sample and an extraction blank--these were all from the Bronco, and
I believe the number is 21.

*MR. SCHECK:* When was that?

*MR. SIMS:* That--I can tell you I think if you look on page 34 of my
notes. Yes. That was on September 21st, 1994.

*MR. SCHECK:* What page is that?

*MR. SIMS:* Page 34.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* And you're familiar with the amplitype user guide
recommendation in terms of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I don't know the exact number in there, but I do think
they mention a number.

*MR. SCHECK:* 15?

*MR. SIMS:* 15 sounds close to the right--but you have to recall that
when you do this kind of test, you're really limited to the
amplification of about 16 samples. Actually not the amplification, but
the typing, you're limited to about 16 at a time. So that might be the
number that they're discussing, because you would have to include a
positive and negative control.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, including those.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, yes. I--15 sounds funny to me, but it might be correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Can we get a page number, section number?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. I'll get it.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Sims, can you tell us, what page?

*MR. SCHECK:* Page 4, no. 14.

*MR. SIMS:* Is that--oh, okay. "limit the--" should I--

*THE COURT:* Hold on.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. Read it to yourself. See if you--

*THE COURT:* See if that refreshes your recollection.

*MR. SCHECK:* Does that refresh your recollection?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, it does.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. The number's 15?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It says approximately 15.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, would you agree that when performing all the
operations that we talked about in terms of processing samples, it's
important not to rush?

*MR. SIMS:* I agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* These are delicate procedures.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That the opening of a tube, popping of the tube and the
creation of an aerosol has been known to cause cross-contamination in
this process?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It's argumentative, no foundation.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if the popping open of the tube can cause an
aerosol which creates cross-contamination in this process?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "popping" is vague.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* This would be a tube of DNA?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I'm aware of that, and that's why we always spin our
tubes down, so that won't create that aerosol problem. So we always spin
a tube down before we pop it open.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have to be careful of exactly how you touch the tops
of these tubes?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I am--I am careful about that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* One has to be. An analyst has to be.

*MR. SIMS:* I think it's a good idea to be, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because just the touching of the top of these tubes and
then the touching of the next one can cause that kind of--can cause
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, not so much from the outside of the tube. I mean, it's
not that there's a problem with it on the outside. As long as you spin
that down, that's the main thing, that you don't have any liquid up near
the top of the tube. I think that's what you mean.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now--

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's go to H.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, actually, looking at h and looking at the
clock, before I go into H, this might be a good time to take a break.

*THE COURT:* Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to take our break
at this point. Please remember all my admonitions to you; don't discuss
the case amongst yourselves, don't form any opinions about the case,
don't conduct any deliberations until the matter has been submitted to
you, do not allow anybody to communicate with you. Mr. Sims, you can
step down, and we'll take a 15-minute recess.

/(Recess.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, out of the presence
of the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* All right. Let's have the jurors, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(The following proceedings were held in open court, in the presence of
the jury:)/

//*THE COURT:* Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Please be seated. Mr.
Sims. All right. Let the record reflect that we have been rejoined by
all the members of our jury panel. Mr. Scheck, you may continue with
your cross-examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims, at the break you were kind enough to review your
notes with me concerning those--the 21 samples. Do you recall that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And you indicated that the maximum number of
samples that you processed from the initial cutting of the swatches to
the reporting of results in one run was 21 samples, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, and that would include the quality control sample, the
extraction blank and then substrate controls intervening the stains.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. Now, at the break you and I reviewed your notes as
to how long--how long it took you to do that procedure with the 21
samples from beginning to end?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And umm, I think you began that on the 8th of September?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Half day?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, that is what we figured.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then September 9th you said it took you all day?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then September 14th, another half day?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And September 15th, at least a half day, maybe
three-quarters of a day?

*MR. SIMS:* Something like that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then September 20th a half day?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* September 21st, a day?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Altogether, between yourself and Miss Montgomery, who
participated in the process, how many days did it take you to process
those samples from beginning to end?

*MR. SIMS:* From the point of--of sampling to having a typing result on
DQ-Alpha?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* That was about 7 working days.

*MR. SCHECK:* 7 working days?

*MR. SIMS:* Approximately.

*MR. SCHECK:* Can you imagine being able to process those samples, 21
samples from beginning to end, in one day?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, calls for speculation, imagination.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Sustained.

*MR. HARMON:* Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's turn to--what is this?

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Umm--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Now, the--there are other kinds of precautions that one
takes in terms of processing samples for purposes of forensic DNA
typing, aside from the ones we've previously reviewed, in terms of which
kind of samples one would handle at different times and different places?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, let's start first with aerosols.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, one kind of aerosol we have already discussed is the
kind of spray that can occur when one opens up a tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. If one has not spun it down, that is a concern because
you can get liquid accumulating under the top of the cap.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. And this would apply also to one of these
lavender-topped tubes that contains reference samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, they are under vacuum, so yes, that is a concern when
you open one of those for the first time.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you open one of those for the first time, one has
to be quite careful about the aerosol of whole blood from the reference
tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in pouring that out, let's say, onto one of these
paper cards, one has to take great care?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, one has to be careful about what else is in the
laboratory, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, aside from aerosols from liquids, can one have
aerosols from dried biological particles?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know if they are possibly called aerosols, but you
can have, for example, powdered blood, something like that. You have to
be concerned about that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Powdered blood would be small particles of dried blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, if one were to take a test-tube that contained blood
swatches that had dried on the inside of the test-tube--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --and then one takes a pipette, holding the test-tube up
and scrapes the bloodstains out of the test-tube with the pipette--

*THE COURT:* Swatches?

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* The swatches.

*MR. SCHECK:* Swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Out of the pipette?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you with me?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Could that not cause an aerosol of powdered blood to fall
on the surface over which the test-tube was held?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, in my experience, with that kind of a sample you
usually see some flakes. It is not as fine a powder but you see more of
like a flake, flaky effect.

*MR. SCHECK:* You could see a flake, but in terms of the dried swatch,
could be an aerosol?

*MR. SIMS:* Again, I'm not sure that is the right term, but if you are
talking about airborne particles, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Airborne particles?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the pipette itself is a flexible instrument?

*MR. SIMS:* Now by pipette do you mean one of those that has a
disposable tip on it or do you mean like a glass--can you--

*MR. SCHECK:* Glass.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Well, it is not very flexible; it is glass.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, one of those thin plastic ones?

*MR. SIMS:* Oh, okay, yes, those are flexible.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right, and he can flick particles?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Especially when you are pulling out of a tube?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So that is another kind of aerosol if--using that definition?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And these are particles of blood?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* From which nanograms of DNA can be extracted?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, if these are real small specks, I don't think you
could get nanograms.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well--

*MR. SIMS:* I mean if you--

*MR. SCHECK:* Again how many?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, your Honor, he cut off his answer.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry. Did you finish, Mr. Sims?

*MR. SIMS:* I was going to say if you had a large flake, then that would
be nanogram quantities, but not the kind of minute specks that I think
you are talking about. Those are not nanogram quantities usually.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let's go back to our discussion of specks.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* How small a particle can one get to derive two nanograms
of DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, from that, if it was solid blood, it would be a very
small flake, something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's turn to paper.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* When examining biological specimens, is it not an
important precaution, to change paper just in examining each item?

*MR. SIMS:* I think that is an important precaution, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So just so we know what we are talking about, let's say
you were examining a blood swatch on a white piece of--what do they call
it in labs? Butcher paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* After examining that swatch it would be important to
remove the paper from which the swatch came before then examining
another swatch on that paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In other words, you wouldn't want to put two swatches
on the same piece of paper. I would agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And in terms of--let's go back to our situation
with the test-tube being with the dried swatches being scraped out with
the pipette.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And paper below the test-tube.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would it not be an important precaution against
cross-contamination to change the paper every time you removed a set of
swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm having a little trouble conceptualizing what is that
swatch then being directed into? I need to get clarification on that.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. There is paper--butcher paper covering the table.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Section of a table.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then on top of that butcher paper is a rectangular bindle.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You saw bindles in this case, did you not?

*MR. SIMS:* I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* Bindles from the Los Angeles Police Department?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Bindles that contained swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* I ask you to assume that the bindle is on top of the
butcher paper.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that the test-tube with the dried swatches is
being--the swatch is being scraped out of that test-tube with the
pipette aiming for the bindle surrounded by the paper.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would it not be sound fundamental laboratory practice to
change the paper underlying the bindle every time you moved to a new item?

*MR. SIMS:* I think I would do that. I don't know if it is absolutely
mandatory to do that, because the bindle does act like a new piece of
paper if it is big enough, but I think it would be a good idea to put a
clean piece of paper underneath each bindle, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, the particles or the aerosol may not hit the bindle.

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And to protect against cross-contamination from those
particles, it would be sound practice to change the paper?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I would--I think it would be a good idea to either
change the paper or to put like a wipe or something, some kind of tissue
over that paper so that you covered that area, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Instruments. Withdrawn. Before I move from--now, in your
laboratory is it not part of your protocol that not only--that the paper
underlying an item that you just examined, right, should be changed
every time you examine another item of evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I would do that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Isn't that part of your protocol?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you are cutting or sampling an item you would
change the paper for each different item?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That would apply to a blood swatch?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That would apply to cuttings from a glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now between each cutting? Is that what you are saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* (Nods head up and down.)

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that is what I did in this particular case, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, instruments. There are various kind of instruments
that are used to manipulate biological evidence in a crime lab?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Tweezers?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes or forceps is what we call them in the scientific world.

*MR. SCHECK:* Forceps?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And is it important to make sure that you clean all
instruments that are used in manipulating biological specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Gloves. Is it part of your protocol to change gloves every
time you handle a different item of biological evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't believe I change my gloves after every item. Umm,
what I do sometimes would be usually to wash my gloves, and certainly if
I had any indication at all that I may have something on my gloves, I
would discard them right away and after, for example, I have been
working around the laboratory and handling doors and things like that, I
would change my gloves also, but I don't believe I would change my
gloves necessarily between each separate item.

*MR. SCHECK:* Did you change your gloves between each swatch that you
handled in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't believe so. No, I don't think so.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you agree that not changing gloves--well, let's
start this way: In handling a wet swatch would you change your gloves
between handling each swatch?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "handling" is vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Rephrase.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* What part of the process are we talking about?

*MR. SCHECK:* In removing a swatch, wet swatch from a plastic bag, would
it be sound practice to change gloves between handling each set of wet
swatches?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "removing" is vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I think if you mean by the scenario we talked about
earlier where you are sticking the tube up in there--

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah.

*MR. SIMS:* --I think if there was any danger that you would have blood
getting onto that tube and then you touched that tube, for example, that
would be a good idea to change your gloves, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. And in the process we talked about where you are
scraping the swatches out of the test-tubes onto the bindle and paper,
between each set of evidence items would you change your gloves?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, now there--as you are explaining it, you are sort
of--you know, you are creating a situation where it is coming down onto
your gloves. I'm not sure that the criminalist might have the--the
material out in front of him or her so that they are really not having
the particle come down onto the gloves. Do you understand what I'm saying?

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, if--are you--would you, as a precautionary practice,
describing--looking at the process we are talking about, scraping the
swatches out of the tube--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --dried swatches out of the tube, would you change your
gloves between handling each of those items?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I don't--I don't think so, because I think one could
reach into that tube and dislodge that sample in such a way that then
one wouldn't get powder onto the gloves. I don't--I don't know that I
have ever done that procedure, so it is hard for me to evaluate it on my
own experience, but I think at least one might wash one's gloves after
each item. That would probably be a good idea.

*MR. SCHECK:* So your testimony then is you would either change your
gloves or wash your gloves between each of these items?

*MR. SIMS:* I think that would be a good idea, but again, it depends on
how exactly that manipulation is performed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Maybe I asked you this question--let's make sure I asked
you this question: Did you either change your gloves or wash your gloves
between handling each swatch in this case?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, compound.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. You testified a second ago that you didn't
necessarily change your gloves between each item?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Would you, between handling each of the swatch
items in this case, have either changed your gloves or washed your gloves?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe that is correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So you were either using a new set of gloves
when you handled each separate item or you were using a set of gloves
that you had washed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I was trying to save the taxpayers a little money by
washing them.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Now, would you agree that with respect to--well,
actually--can we move to I? In viewing each of these different factors
in terms of cross-contamination, okay--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --starting to the right hand of that white line, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --the first one we were talking about, degraded samples.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And we agreed that in handling degraded samples,
that is, the fact that samples are degraded creates a risk of
cross-contamination in and of itself?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. There is greater risk with those samples.

*MR. SCHECK:* And handling a reference sample, I am now looking at the
test-tube plus one, all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --reference sample in the same area during the same
period, either by pouring off sample from the--popping up the top of the
tube, pouring it onto a card and in the same area during the same
period, one is handling evidence samples, that kind of situation can
increase of risk of cross-contamination?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. "period" is vague, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And handling samples from a suspect and a victim at the
same time can create a risk of cross-contamination of sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Can we clarify a little bit about suspect and victim? I
think we had a had a little--

*MR. SCHECK:* You recall that discussion that is represented by that
logo, without reviewing it all?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I think we talked about that.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then we talked about samples represented by that scale
of samples with high DNA concentration and low DNA concentration?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then we talked about samples from different crime scenes?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And we talked about handling many samples at the same time?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, with respect to all those different contamination
factors to the right of the line, those represent in a sense situations
that can raise the level of risk in terms of making an inadvertent
transfer of cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, looking to the factors on the left-hand side--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --if you combine the creation of an aerosol--

*THE COURT:* Excuse me, counsel. This witness has never adopted your
characterization of aerosol. Airborne particles perhaps; not aerosol.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

*MR. SCHECK:* Airborne articles represented by the clip art of fireworks?

*MR. SIMS:* I like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you. All right. Talking about airborne particles,
all right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Combining that with any of these other situations to the
right of the line, that is a--sort of a mechanism of transfer that would
increase the risk of cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the paper, you recall our discussion about not
changing paper?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* If you combine not changing paper with each of those
situations, that is a mechanism of transfer that can increase the risk
of cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And with respect to the bunsen burner representing the
cleaning of instruments, if one does not adequately clean instruments,
that can be a mechanism of transfer that facilitates
cross-contamination, raises the level of risk in the other situations to
the right of that white line?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And with respect to gloves, gloves, either not changing
gloves or washing gloves--

*MR. SIMS:* Right.

*MR. SCHECK:* --okay, between samples, combined with any of those other
factors to the right of the line, can become a mechanism of transfer for
cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Thank you.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Let's turn to note taking.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your protocol has a section dealing with note taking?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you familiar with it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I am.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you rely on it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* Good. That saves me some time. Would you agree, and I'm
now referring to section 7.3 of your protocol, that the functions of
note taking are: "to support the conclusions in the laboratory report,
to permit internal review of the work product, to allow reevaluation of
the data by outside scientific observers, and to provide a foundation
for the introduction of work product into Court"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you agree that: "notes are to be made at the time the
work is done and to accurately reflect what was done"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So the way that you filled out notes in this case, is that
you would perform a procedure and then after performing the procedure
you would write down what you did?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And write that down in detail?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Including, for example, changing or washing gloves?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In some instances I did that early on, and then as
things became more routine, I just kind of knew that that was part of
the routine.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you agree that for case work analytical notes should
be recorded on DNA case note forms or the appropriate run sheet or
checklist and each page should be numbered?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Dated?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And initialed by the analyst?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And handwritten notes should be made in ink?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have been working in criminalistic labs for how long?

*MR. SIMS:* Almost--well, 19 years.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. When you make your initials on various pieces
of packaging, you do them in ink?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It would be weird that I would ever have a pencil
around in my lab.

*MR. SCHECK:* And corrections--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --should be made by lining through the original so the
original text is still visible?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And initialing the correction?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is a precaution that criminalists take to ensure
chain of custody?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That is argumentative and it is also
irrelevant, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* And do you rely on the section of your protocol entitled
"documentation," section 3.3?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I do.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you agree that note keeping is defined as
documentation of work is performed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* As "performed" means both that the record is made at the
time the work is done?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And what is recorded is what is actually done?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you reviewed bindles from the Los Angeles Police
Department in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Bindles that contain swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the initials on those bindles were in pencil?

*MR. SIMS:* I think that most of the D.F. Ones were in pencil, as I recall.

*MR. SCHECK:* And those bindles didn't have June dates.

*MR. SIMS:* I think a couple of them did, but I don't--I certainly--you
asked me earlier if I saw any with the June dates, and I don't think I
had any with the June dates on them, if is that your--

*MR. SCHECK:* Did you see one bindle with the initials "A.M." for Andrea
Mazzola on any of the swatches you handled?

*MR. SIMS:* No. I don't recall seeing "A.M." on any of those bindles.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, you have a manual for your laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And as we agreed before, it is detailed?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Everyone in the laboratory is familiar with that manual?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they should be.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the provisions of that manual are not just guidelines
that analysts are free to ignore if they feel they want to--

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct, they cannot ignore those.

*MR. SCHECK:* And would you agree, as an expert in crime lab procedure,
that being careful and paying attention to detail in the handling and
the documentation of samples is very important?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that being sloppy about the handling of biological
samples with respect to DNA testing, umm, is something that should be
avoided?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because of the dangers of cross-contamination or at least
that is certainly one of the reasons?

*MR. SIMS:* That is one of the reasons, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when we talk about inadvertent transfers, would you
agree that sometimes one makes accidents in the handling of samples that
one is aware of?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You might be aware that you saw some particle of blood,
for example, on a glove?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But accidents can happen that you are not aware of?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In the handling and the manipulation of samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it is for that reason that it is important to follow
the precautions that we reviewed so far this afternoon?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there is a lot more to that, but yes, that is part of it.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in terms of at the end of a DNA analysis, when you are
looking at an autorad or a typing strip, and there is some indication in
your controls, positive control, negative control or quality control
sample, of a irregularity, it is often difficult to go back and figure
out what stage of the process went wrong that caused that irregularity?

*MR. SIMS:* It can be difficult, but one can take a systematic approach
to that and track back and perform the different parts of the
experiment, and also if one has, for example, extracted DNA or raw
material, one can repeat that analysis. That could be part of the way of
tracking that back. You may not figure out exactly what happened, but
then you could still get the correct result, for example.

*MR. SCHECK:* For example, on these DNA typing strips for PCR, one sees
dots?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when certain dots light up, that is an indication that
perhaps some amount of DNA associated with an allele has been detected?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But sometimes dots can light up and one wonders whether or
not that is DNA that really comes from the starting material that you
are examining as opposed to something that may be just what's called an
artifact in the process?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, compound.

*THE COURT:* Sustained. Rephrase the question.

*MR. SCHECK:* What is--can dots light up on that PCR strip and it not be
the DNA from the starting material?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That could happen, for example, if you had a mix-up of
sample or something like that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And--or it could happen from some kind of contaminant that
gets into the reagents?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* It can happen from some cross-contamination in the
handling, in the extraction--cutting and extraction of the sample?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But when one starts the reconstruction from looking at
that dot-blot--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --it can often be difficult to figure out exactly what
occurred to cause the dot to appear?

*MR. SIMS:* Sometimes it is difficult, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's talk for a second about your training in
forensic DNA analysis.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You testified that you started at the Department of
Justice in 1990?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, in January of 1990.

*MR. SCHECK:* And was that your first exposure to doing forensic DNA
analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* No. My--well, as far as doing it--my first training in DNA
went back to 1988, but that was--that was a class that I took in how to
perform DNA analysis.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SIMS:* My first job involving DNA analysis was 1990, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is when you started at the Department of Justice?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you did not begin to do case work in January of 1990?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* You began a process of training?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And could you describe for us--and you didn't--I think you
told us on direct examination that you didn't begin doing case work
until May or June of 1993?

*MR. SIMS:* `92.

*MR. SCHECK:* `92, I'm sorry. So how long was that from the time you
first started at the DOJ lab?

*MR. SIMS:* About--about two years, a little over two years.

*MR. SCHECK:* But before you started at the DOJ lab, did you have
extensive experience in crime lab procedures?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* How many years?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, as part of my--all the time that I was in
criminalistics, so that would be, what now, about fourteen years of
experience in criminalistics before I went to the Department of Justice,
something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Doing conventional serological testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Umm, and dealing with biological specimens?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you did not begin doing case work until you finished
two years of training?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you did your training, did you receive guidance
from people that had Ph.Ds or doctorate degrees?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* People who had training in molecular biology?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* People who had doctorate degrees in population genetics?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* I think the phrase you used on direct examination, when
Mr. Harmon was asking you why it took so long, you said something to the
effect that it is important to know what makes a good bloodstain into a
bad bloodstain?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That was part of I think what we were discussing, our
environment abuse experiment where we exposed blood and semen stains to
a wide variety of environment conditions to evaluate whether or not we
would get the right or the wrong answer.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so it would be important, for criminalists who are
collecting, packaging, processing, extracting, performing DNA analysis,
to have an understanding of what causes degradation in samples?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, misstates the testimony. It is argumentative.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm asking him if that is true.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I think that would be important, that people collecting
biological evidence should have some basic understanding.

*MR. SCHECK:* Of--they should have a basic understanding of what can
cause cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In forensic DNA analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And this, I think you indicated, is only the eighth time
you have testified in court about your forensic DNA work?

*MR. SIMS:* I think this is now nine.

*MR. SCHECK:* Nine? Okay. Now, you talked on direct examination about
laboratory accreditation?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You indicated that the Department of Justice is accredited
by what is known as Asclad lab?

*MR. SIMS:* The American society of crime laboratory directors
laboratory accreditation board.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Now, this is a group of people that are doing
forensic work?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I think you said that I think it was, to save me some
time, that with respect to the recommendations of the national research
council of the national academy of science in their book "DNA technology
in forensic science" that you don't rely on any of it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. That misstates the testimony that he gave.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I think you--as I understand, Mr. Harmon's question was did
I rely on anything in there to reach the conclusions that I reached in
this case.

*MR. SCHECK:* Oh, okay. Are you familiar with the recommendations in
that book concerning laboratory accreditation?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is irrelevant, hearsay under 721.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* No foundation.

*THE COURT:* You can answer the question. Yes or no. Are you familiar
with it?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* You didn't read that chapter?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't remember the administrative stuff.

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Do you recall reading a chapter 4 called "ensuring high
standards"?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I remember this chapter.

*MR. SCHECK:* May I approach?

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Well, do you know whether you would rely on any part of
this chapter as a--in terms of your expertise in criminalistics?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is vague--it is irrelevant what he would
rely on. It is hearsay, foundational 721.

*MR. SCHECK:* I am trying to save some time.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I think you would have to ask me on a point by point basis.

*MR. SCHECK:* Some you would rely on; some you wouldn't?

*MR. SIMS:* Depending on what that section says.

*THE COURT:* Mr. Scheck, why don't we move on. I'm not overly optimistic
on this line of questioning.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let me just try it. Try a little bit.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I have an objection to--

*THE COURT:* Wait, wait. I am discussing this with counsel. I am trying
to give him some guidance. Why don't you sit down. I'm not overly
optimistic, Mr. Scheck, given the lack of the foundation at this point,
so why don't we move on.

*MR. SCHECK:* I have located the sentence. Let me just ask this one and
then I will move on, your Honor.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let me call your attention to--

*THE COURT:* Ask him if it refreshes his recollection whether or not he
relied upon that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes, yes. That is exactly what I'm going to do.

*THE COURT:* Don't read it. Let him read it.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm not. I'm not. I am just pointing it out.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let me just call your attention to the sentence on page
102 in the--the section dealing with establishing standards in forensic
DNA typing, starting at the bottom of the page and moving into the top
of page 103.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, your Honor. He is reading parts of the book
right now.

*MR. SCHECK:* I am calling his attention to it.

*THE COURT:* No. Go ahead and read it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just read that to yourself and then tell me whether you
rely upon that section?

*/MR. SIMS:/*/(Witness complies.)/

//*MR. HARMON:* Objection. It is vague in relied upon in forming what
opinion?

*THE COURT:* Overruled, counsel.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you relied upon that in forming your opinions with
respect to accreditation of laboratories?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, do you believe--do you have--you were asked questions
about clinical medicine on your direct examination and DNA typing in
clinical medicine.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Are you aware of standards or regulations in
clinical medicine and how they compare to the standards on forensic
laboratories?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* So the issue is you know forensic standards?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you are not aware of the standards required of
laboratories who are using DNA typing in clinical medicine?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct, I don't know those standards.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So you couldn't tell us whether they are more
rigorous or less rigorous than forensics?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, asked and answered.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. HARMON:* Calls for speculation, too.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* I couldn't tell you.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, in terms of discussing forensic DNA typing, Asclad
sets standards which your laboratory had to meet?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And would you agree that the process of preparing your
laboratory for Asclad accreditation improved in some measure the work in
the laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't--I don't think it necessarily improved our work
product. I think what it did was to bring it all together for us, and I
think it--it addressed some issues. I mean, when you talk about
accreditation, this would even include safety issues, evidence handling
issues as far as security of the laboratory, all those things are part
of it. I don't think in a particular way that it changed our work
product. I don't think it changed the quality of our product. I think
what it helps to do is to tell the users of our services that we are
meeting certain minimum standards and so it is--it is saying that we
meet those standards.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. I'm not asking you--I think you were asked on
direct examination were your results as reliable before the
accreditation process as after. Do you recall that?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* That misstates the testimony.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm not asking you that question.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* I mean, in terms of, umm, cases, are you--are you aware of
making a mistake?

*MR. SIMS:* In--

*MR. SCHECK:* In any of your forensic DNA typing cases to this point?

*MR. SIMS:* No, I am not aware that I have made a mistake in any of my
cases.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. On the other hand, would you agree that the process
of accreditation which I think you have indicated you review all the
different techniques in your laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You look at how various people in the laboratory handle
biological evidence?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You would look into some of the factors that we discussed
this afternoon in terms of trying to prevent cross-contamination and
precautions that ought to be taken?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that the kind of thing that is done during the
accreditation process?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And during the accreditation process did you work on that
manual that we've talked about?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I think we had to put together the manual as part of
our accreditation, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in putting together the manual you went through the
details of exactly what people did?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And people learned exactly what procedures ought to be
followed with care?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, people didn't hear that from the manual. We knew those
things so we incorporated those things into our manual to say as a
reference that that is how we are doing things and we are telling you
that this is how we are doing things.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And maybe some people in the laboratory had one way
of doing things and other people had others?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, we were--we were actually pretty much all on the same
wavelength as far as those concerns, but there were some minor things,
yes, that we improved upon.

*MR. SCHECK:* And in the process of accreditation and in putting
together of this manual, what happens is, is that you set out uniform
standards that you can be sure everyone associated with that crime lab
will follow?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I can be sure that they know they are supposed to
follow those, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Right. And you would agree that that is a benefit of going
through the accreditation process?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I would agree with that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, on direct examination there was some discussion of
your role in what is known as certification?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And accreditation is something that is done for the whole
laboratory, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* But certification is a process where an individual
criminalist is examined?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And I think you told us something about being on the board
of American--what is the title of that organization?

*MR. SIMS:* I was on the board of examiners that--that--for example, I
would work on certain test questions. I would also proctor the examination.

*MR. SCHECK:* Uh-huh. This would be for the individual analyst, this
certification test?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And would you agree that the process of preparing for the
test has the effect of improving the work of an individual analyst?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I think--I think that is a fair statement. In other
words, part of that is the educational benefit that one gains from
preparing for that sort of examination, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* I mean, no matter how experienced one is, you can always
learn some new technique that will improve your level of practice?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* So you would agree it is important that criminalists who
work for a number years in the field be certified?

*MR. SIMS:* I think it is important that the criminalist move toward
certification, yes. Our field has been slow to do that, and we are now
coming on line with certification more and more.

*MR. SCHECK:* Umm, do you know Dennis Fung?

*MR. SIMS:* I know him from watching him in this case, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you know if your organization has certified him through
its examinations?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, irrelevant, beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you familiar with the guidelines for the collection of
DNA evidence that was published by the FBI?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I think--was that the one that Dr. Lee was a co-author of?

*MR. SCHECK:* (Nods head up and down.)

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Have you reviewed that document?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Do you rely on it?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, it is vague. Rely on what for what reason?

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Is there anything you saw in that document you
don't rely on?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, still vague.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* For purposes of methods that you in your expert opinion
would believe were sound for the collection of evidence items for
purposes of forensic DNA analysis?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't--I don't recall any statement in there that I
disagreed with, no.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, as the last part of this section of our discussion
here, Mr. Sims, I have a series of photographs, your Honor, that I would
like to mark--

*THE COURT:* 11--1160-A through--

*MR. SCHECK:* Maybe 1168-A, B, C, D, E and F.

*THE COURT:* All right. 1160.

/(Deft's 1160-A thru f for id = photographs)/

//*THE COURT:* A through F.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you and I reviewed these photographs, did we not?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. We looked at them just briefly.

*MR. SCHECK:* And these are photographs of you in your laboratory?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. These were taken a few weeks ago by Dr. Blake.

*MR. SCHECK:* And this--these photographs were--showed you at different
stages of the process by which you, I guess, initially handled and cut
the samples in this case?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Dr.--Dr. Blake asked me to reconstruct and just sort of
go through what it looked like as I was processing the samples in this case.

*MR. SCHECK:* And could you review those and suggest which order we
ought to go through.

*THE COURT:* You mean you didn't put those in order, a through F?

*MR. SCHECK:* I think we did, but I'm only asking him whether I have the
order right.

*THE COURT:* How about if we renumber them in the order we are going to
use them.

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm sorry?

*THE COURT:* Renumber them in the order we are going to use them.

*MR. SCHECK:* I am going to do that.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let me show you B.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*THE COURT:* We are going to start with B?

*MR. SCHECK:* Start with B. A is a surprise.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Could you describe for us what is depicted in A?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. Those are, I believe, my hands. What I'm showing is the
process of how I am cutting out a sample here. This is just a blank
card. Obviously, it is a white card. I'm showing that I have the--I have
a laboratory bench that I have bleached now. I have a--

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, let's just stop right there. The laboratory bench is
the bench that that blue what would you call it, hospital--

*MR. SIMS:* Hospital type diaper we call them, something like that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Hospital type diaper, that is what it is, okay. Correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So before you put that hospital type diaper on
the bench you bleach it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the purpose of bleaching it is to make sure that you
get rid of biological material that could contain DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Then you put the hospital type blue--what
should we call it, blanket?

*MR. SIMS:* Sure.

*MR. SCHECK:* --on the bench?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Then what is that white paper on top of the blue hospital
blanket?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. I would--the way I am processing this case--the way I
processed this case and other cases certainly, too, I would put down a
new one of these blue pads for each one of the items that I looked at.
Keep in mind that each item is--generally each item is a coin envelope
that contains two bindles, so inside this coin envelope are two bindles.
One of the bindles would contain the swatch with the bloodstain on it.
The other bindle would contain the substrate control, so I would change
this blue pad between each one of those coin envelopes. So now when I
would open the coin envelope--I'm sorry. Before I would open the coin
envelope there would be one of these white chem wipes, just a piece of
white tissue, a large size tissue like a Kleenex somewhat.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that the white--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Chem wipe is the large white object--larger white object
on top of the blue blanket?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. And so I would process the bindle containing the stain
on top of one chem wipe and then I would change the chem wipe and then
process the next bindle containing the substrate control with a new chem
wipe.

*MR. SCHECK:* So what you are actually doing there, is that just for one
item, all right, one item that contains the swatch with the specimen on
it and the substrate control, between the substrate control and the
specimen you would change the surface you were working on that chem wipe?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, in most cases. I think on some of these it may have
just been one chem wipe that I am working on. You can see it is a large
chem wipe, so I would work on two different areas of it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Different areas or you change the chem wipe?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the manila envelope there, that is to replicate the
coin envelope?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That is to replicate the coin envelope.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And on the upper left-hand--well, I guess it is
the upper right-hand corner of the screen, we see another one of those
blue hospital blankets?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And what is on that?

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me. Well, that would now contain the--that orange
object is a test-tube rack and soap. As I process these test-tubes, I
would place each tube individually into that rack. In other words, once
you put a stain swatch into a test-tube, then it is capped and placed
into that rack, so it is out of the way of the other material. And then
also on there you can see a--this is another little chem wipe that has a
little blue plastic tube popper on it. That is used to pop these tubes
open so that that way you don't do it with your glove; you do it with
the tube popper. And then finally I think I'm laying out another chem
wipe that would have the cap, unused tubes. In other words, where I
would get the new tubes from, because those come out of an autoclave jar
at one point and you would lay some of those out.

*MR. SCHECK:* You just used the word "autoclave." could you tell the
jury what an autoclave is?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. It is a process whereby reagents and equipment are--is
steam sterilized. In other words, it takes things up to a very high
temperature to sterilize.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the purpose of that is?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, the purpose of that is to destroy biological material
and to break DNA down into various small--very, very small fragments.

*MR. SCHECK:* Helps prevent cross-contamination?

*MR. SIMS:* Contamination, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Now, let's go back to the--you say you have a
scissors in your hand?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is in your right hand? That is in your left hand?

*MR. SIMS:* That would be my forceps.

*MR. SCHECK:* You were asked some questions on direct examination about
your forceps. Sometimes people call them tweezers?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, are your tweezers serrated?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* They are like the tweezer or the forceps that jewelers
use, they are ground down, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, they are like those.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And it is your understanding that forensic DNA
scientists that do the work you do will employ such ground down forceps?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. That is not just DNA; that is from conventional
serology days.

*MR. SCHECK:* Conventional serology days?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* It is a general practice among criminalists to avoid
handling samples with serrated tweezers because the problem with
serrated tweezers is that you can get--they are harder to clean?

*MR. SIMS:* They are harder to clean, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. So please go on and tell us about what you are doing
there.

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I am just proceeding to cut into this sample is what I
would be doing, and I think that is it.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Great. Let's move on to C.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* What are you doing here?

*MR. SIMS:* There you can see the tap is running and I am
washing--washing my forceps.

*MR. SCHECK:* What are you washing them in at that point?

*MR. SIMS:* Just tap water. In other words, a big gush of water to get
any of the bulk material off.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. So you start with the water to get the bulk
material off; is that correct?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's move to D. What are you doing in D?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm wiping my forceps with a chem wipe.

*MR. SCHECK:* What are you doing in E?

*MR. SIMS:* Now, at this point this is the next part of the cleaning
process where I'm actually rinsing them down with a little spray bottle
of alcohol.

*MR. SCHECK:* And what are you doing in F?

*MR. SIMS:* This--this is the flaming process. Whenever that bunsen
burner was lit, people in the laboratory knew that Dr. Blake and I were
working together, but that is used to what we call fire or flame the
actual tools and that is sort of a final ultimate killer of anything. I
mean, it would certainly carbonize any biological material that may be
left over.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you would do this between each item?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, and that would be even between each substrate control,
of course, too.

*MR. SCHECK:* Between--you go from specimen and you would go through
this cleaning procedure?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Including the last part of the autoclaving or using the
bunsen burner?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then you would move to the specimen or specimen,
substrate control, you clean in between?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the last picture, which I know you didn't want me to
show, that is you in the lab, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. This is a picture of me in the laboratory. That is my U.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Thank you.

*THE COURT:* That is your U?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. The shape of the bench is a U, so we call those U's.

*MR. SCHECK:* What is our timing? I can't even remember. Did we take a
break or are we moving right through?

*THE COURT:* We are moving along. 4:30.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay.

/(Brief pause.)/

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Let's now move to the Bundy blood drops.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, plastic bags. In your opinion, sir, putting a wet
swatch--swatches in a plastic bag that folds over and then putting that
plastic bag in a coin envelope, putting it on--on the floor of a crime
scene truck for seven hours in the month of June--I won't say anything
about--just make assumptions about the temperature being something on
the order of in the sixties in Brentwood--

*MR. SIMS:* I grew up in L.A. So I know--I know what June is like. It is
usually a little overcast part of the morning.

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't we assume it is about 11:00 or twelve o'clock in
the afternoon?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. The skies are starting to lighten up, people are
heading for the beach.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it is in a crime scene truck.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And it is there for seven hours.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Before opened.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you agree that putting swatches in a plastic bag,
wet blood swatches in that fashion would have the effect of degrading
the DNA in those samples?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, it is beyond the scope.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Provided that there was some bacterial action, for example,
that came with the substrate material, yes, that could get that process
going.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the bacterial agents could be on--you saw some
pictures on direct examination about the locations of items 47, which
was photo no. 117, 48, photo no. 118, 49, photo no. 119, 50, photo no.
120 and 52, I think photo no. 122. You saw those?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Those blood drops, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You saw the substrates?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you have a reasonable expectation that those--that
swatches made from those blood drops would contain biological--bacterial
agents that when put--those swatches put in the plastic bag, kept there
for seven hours, moist and wet, would begin a process of bacterial
degradation?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. In other words, if this is a blood sample, then the
bacteria would feed on the blood, and yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* In your opinion is a sound practice to collect wet blood
swatches of this kind containing from substrates that have some dirt,
put them in plastic bags, such--in the truck in my hypothetical for
seven hours? Is this a sound practice?

*MR. SIMS:* I--I don't think it is a good idea to leave them that long.

*MR. SCHECK:* Because that could have the effect of causing severe
degradation of the samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, it could certainly lead to degradation. The severity
I'm not sure of.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, because it is hard to predict exactly how extensive
the process of degradation might be?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't know if it is that hard to predict. I mean,
bacteria have certain growth cycles and people have characterized these
things quite well, so I think you could do the experiment. I think you
just don't know exactly how much is in the starting material. That is
what would be hard to predict.

*MR. SCHECK:* You conducted yield gels of the blood drops from Bundy?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the results of your yield gels indicated that they
contained lots of bacterial DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that is--that is what it suggested, although once you
keep in mind we did not do a specific test for bacteria, but that is
what I interpreted to be the most likely cause.

*MR. SCHECK:* In these yield gels I think--did you see that part of Dr.
Cotton's testimony where she put a yield gel up there for the jury?

*MR. SIMS:* I may have seen that, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SIMS:* I think I did.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is one of those gels where they have some bands that
are standards?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* That have a certain degree of intensity?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And then you compare the smears in the lanes for the
specimens to the standards?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And sometimes at the bottom of those bands there is
something that are called plasmids?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. I--I think those may be plasmids, although I'm not sure
those are plasmids.

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't you tell the jury what a plasmid is.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes. A plasmid is a relatively small piece of circular DNA
that is usually found inside a bacterium. It is separate from the
bacterial DNA, but it goes along for the ride with the bacterium.

*MR. SCHECK:* On the yield gels, when one can identify areas that look
like plasmid bands--

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I'm--the point is I know the bands you are speaking of
and I believe they are bacterial origin. Whether they are plasmids or
not I'm not sure.

*MR. SCHECK:* But those bands indicate to you that there was substantial
bacterial degradation in the Bundy blood drops?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that would suggest to me that there is substantial
bacteria. For example, when we look at a vaginal swab from a case, you
will frequently see bacteria, but that doesn't mean that the female's
DNA is degraded.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Now, after the yield gel for these Bundy drops,
you conducted something that you described before as a southern transfer
process?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that was done to determine if you could identify the
amount of human DNA that were in these samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that can't--that--and you were able to get some--and
then you did what is known as a slot-blot?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Did you do that before--I think you did that before or
after the southern transfer?

*MR. SIMS:* One of the times we did it after. I think another time we
may have done it before.

*MR. SCHECK:* Are you finished? But the slot-blot is a way of
determining the amount of human DNA--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --in the specimen?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And so what we had in these Bundy blood drops was a
substantial amount of bacterial DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And some amount of human DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And from those tests you can't tell how the amount of
human DNA got there?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's talk about how much human DNA you were able to
identify in these samples.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, for sample 47 you received two swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* I believe that's correct, but I would like to check my notes
on that point.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. If I may approach the witness, I have a chart
that might assist him.

*THE COURT:* Do you want to show that to Mr. Harmon?

*MR. HARMON:* I have not seen that.

*MR. SCHECK:* It is my own work notes, but I will show it to him.

*THE COURT:* If you are going to show it to the witness--

*MR. SCHECK:* That's quite correct.

*MR. HARMON:* Could I get a copy of this?

*MR. SCHECK:* Sure.

*THE COURT:* I have never seen it before. Could I have a chance to
review it, too, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Sure. Ms. Robertson, do you want to--

*MR. SCHECK:* You know what, your Honor, just to save time, rather than
do that--

*MR. SCHECK:* You are not going to take my word what is on this chart,
are you? You are going to look it up in your own notes?

*MR. SIMS:* Mr. Scheck, I would take your word for anything. I will look
it up.

*MR. SCHECK:* Look it up.

*MR. SIMS:* But just to make sure we are connecting here, now, this was
with regards to no. 47?

*MR. SCHECK:* 47.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. I had, by the way, prepared a little spread sheet
that--just as a roadmap to my notes. That is what I'm looking at to find
these things.

*MR. SCHECK:* Maybe I could look at that?

*MR. SIMS:* Sure.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* So you received two swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And they weighed 8.5 milligrams?

*MR. SIMS:* This is now no. 47?

*MR. SCHECK:* 47.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. The--that would be correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the weight extracted by you was 4.7 milligrams?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I took the larger piece.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you got 4.34 nanograms of human DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* I'm sorry, you asked me how many--what was the quantity?

*MR. SCHECK:* 4.34 of the slot-blot?

*MR. SIMS:* That sounds about right. I had about 3.8 after--after I did
the quantitation. When Dr. Blake and I would review these quantitations,
I went back and figured out--he went back and figured out the total
yield, I believe, is what my notes would reflect how much was left after
I had done the quantitation because that is what I had left to work
with, about four nanograms?

*MR. SCHECK:* 4.34?

*MR. SIMS:* I would go for that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Now, let's assume that there were five other swatches
associated with sample 47, weighing 28 milligrams, and let's further
assume that the biological matter, the blood, was randomly or evenly
distributed over those other swatches.

*MR. SIMS:* That is--that is quite an assumption sometimes if you are
talking about uniformity.

*MR. SCHECK:* Just assume that--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, improper hypothetical. There is no foundation
for it.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* And let's further assume that--maybe this will be the
easiest assumption to just make and quantify. Let's just assume that out
of all the material associated with sample 47, all seven swatches, you
extracted 12.9 or 13 percent of the DNA.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would you project then that associated with all the
swatches there would be about 33.6 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Without a calculator I wouldn't assume that.

*MR. SCHECK:* About in that area?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. Say again. Your amount was?

*MR. SCHECK:* That you had about 12.9 or 13 percent of the sample.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* That if we were to calculate--thank you, your Honor--if we
were to calculate the total amount of human DNA in the sample, it would
come to something on the order of 33.6 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, that sounds about right.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SIMS:* It would be about ten times what I had, so yeah.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's try sample 48.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You received two swatches weighing 8.1 milligrams,
extracted 6.5 and got a slot-blot of 4 nanograms.

*MR. SIMS:* Again let me check that.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Okay. This is item number--

*MR. SCHECK:* 48.

*MR. SIMS:* --48. Okay. And you said about 4; is that right?

*MR. SCHECK:* 4.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* So based on the weight, assuming that you extracted eighty
percent of the total amount in those two swatches, that if you were to
project total amount of DNA on the swatches, it would be 5 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Yeah. I can eyeball that.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. Let's turn to sample 49.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You received about two swatches in I think something like
a thread that weighed 4.6 milligrams altogether?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, there were--keep in mind on 49 there were two
different submissions on that, but you are talking about the initial one?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah. Well, to cut to the bottom line, let's assume that
there were altogether five swatches--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* --associated with this sample weighing a total
of--and--19.6 milligrams you extracted 2.5 milligrams and got a quantity
of .24 nanograms, which would mean that your quantification represents
13 percent of the total sample extracted and therefore the total amount
of human DNA in the sample would be on the order of 1.8 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* That sounds about right, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let's turn to item 50.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* You received one swatch weighing 7.2 milligrams.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Assume that this is a total of four swatches with a total
weight of 22.2 milligrams.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* The weight of your extraction is 3.6.

*MR. SIMS:* Wait. I'm sorry. Back up. There were a total of how many
swatches?

*MR. SCHECK:* 4.

*MR. SIMS:* 4, okay, and mine was 7.2?

*MR. SCHECK:* Right.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the total weight is 22.2 mil?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, wait if there is 4 and I've got 7.2? Doesn't it have
to be closer to about 30 milligrams?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, objection. Is this a hypothetical? And if it
is, there is no foundation for it. It is improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Well, it is a little late now that we've gone through several.

*MR. HARMON:* Well, better late than never, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* That is true. Why don't you reask the question and clarify
with Mr. Sims.

*MR. SCHECK:* Why don't we just--the weight you extracted was 3.6
milligrams?

*MR. SIMS:* Oh, okay. What I extracted was 3.6. Okay. That is where--okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* And assume that 16 percent of the total--

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Base--is this a hypothetical?

*MR. SCHECK:* I'm asking him to assume that.

*MR. HARMON:* There is no basis for it. Objection on that basis.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, can we--there is--

/(Discussion held off the record between Defense counsel.)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* You are aware that all the swatches were weighed in this
case at your laboratory, at Cellmark diagnostics?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Calls for hearsay, compound.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, subject to connect--

/(The following proceedings were held at the bench:)/

//*THE COURT:* What is the point here, Barry?

*MR. SCHECK:* The point is that we--Cellmark has the data, the
Prosecution has the data, and I ask you to take it subject to connection
and that we will produce the weights that everybody was present for,
okay? In order to get what this--to get out from this witness a
projection of the total amount of DNA in each of these samples, by
methods that he already described to this Court in a Griffen hearing,
standard methods in the field for trying to project total weight of DNA,
if you recall, we did that at the split hearing, exactly the same
procedures when he was trying to project how much would be available for
splits, et cetera.

*THE COURT:* But part of the problem, though, is that you don't know the
uniformity of the material on the swatches.

*MR. SCHECK:* I understand that.

*THE COURT:* That is our problem.

*MR. SCHECK:* My point is that--that that is something that they can ask
on cross-examination or he can qualify, but I think that for these
purposes, particularly since that can't be measured, it is a very
scientific assumption, and the way he did it in the Griffen hearing--and
if you want I will lay the foundation--the way people in this field will
do it is to make assumption of random distribution. If we make an
assumption of random distribution, what would you project the amount to
be? And then they can argue later that, well, it may have him been
uneven, et cetera, maybe there is more.

/(Discussion held off the record between the Deputy District Attorneys.)/

//*THE COURT:* Do we have somewhere a total extracted per item by all
the labs involved?

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes.

*MR. HARMON:* You know, this raises an intriguing point that I know it
is about time to burst the balloon on this, and that is reciprocal
discovery. I am aware that these things have been reviewed in camera.
Mr. Scheck says they are going to tie it up. They are going to present
it. We have almost nothing from Defense experts in this case and I think
it is about time for them to start giving it up rather than to tell you,
which I'm sure they have in camera, that this would undermine or
compromise their ability to effectively cross-examine and that is not--I
don't know what he is talking about. I don't know everything about their
case, but I think that is what is going on and it is time to call a halt
to the proceedings and for somebody to start turning over their
reciprocal discovery. I would like to know what the offer of proof is. I
would like to know who the witness is and I would like to see the
documentation for the assertion that he made a couple minutes ago. And
unless and until that happens, I think the Court needs to draw a halt to
this and turn this back into a fair proceeding where we are entitled to
have what we should have had before the trial began, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* What is the basis of your offer that we know what the total
extraction is?

*MR. SCHECK:* The way that this hypothetical is proceeding is that we
are--we know many swatches there are, they know how many swatches. The
data comes from them. The weights--because I don't think there is any
reciprocal discovery problem at all, just like the pictures, the
stipulations, that is, these weights were done by Dr. Lee and Dr. Blake
and Cellmark together. Everybody put the swatches on the scale--

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* --and measured them. Each wrote down what weight, and that
is all I'm working with, the number of milligrams in the swatches, the
number of swatches.

*THE COURT:* But I thought you told me that this was a compilation
somewhere of the total extractions from all these items.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yeah, exists in the notes from Cellmark and from DOJ is
how much they extracted from--in other words, he has his slot-blot
calculations.

*THE COURT:* Uh-huh.

*MR. SCHECK:* So what we are doing in these hypotheticals and what he is
agreeing to is in the same method that was applied at the Griffen
hearing, is that he is saying, if we assume random distribution and we
look at the amount of weight of each swatch and the number of swatches,
all right, and the weight--the percentage of weight is the simplest way
to do it, and then we look at his DNA extraction and project the total
DNA extraction, that is an estimate of how much human DNA was in each of
these samples.

*THE COURT:* Well, I'm not going to assume--I'm going to sustain the
objection at this point because we can't assume a random or uniform
distribution.

*MR. SCHECK:* If I ask him a foundational question whether or not to that--

*MR. HARMON:* While I did not object, I would like to move to strike the
entire line of questioning. I didn't make a timely objection.

*THE COURT:* I'm going to sustain a foundational objection at this point
because I don't think you can assume any uniform distribution.

/(The following proceedings were held in open court:)/

//*MR. SCHECK:* Mr. Sims--

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* --in assessing samples for purposes of forensic DNA
testing, is it a regular practice to take slot-blot measurements of
parts of swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, sometimes we use slot-blots, but sometimes we
quantitate just from the yield gel.

*MR. SCHECK:* By either using the yield gel or a slot-blot or even a
southern transfer together using these quantitative methods?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Well, is it a regular--well, is it a practice that is used
to try to make a projection as to how much total DNA one would expect to
find in a sample based on the assumption that the amount of DNA one sees
in one part of a swatch would be randomly distributed on other parts of
the swatches? Is that one way that people in your line of work try to
make estimates about the amount of DNA for purposes of figuring out a
testing process?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. And in fact at some point earlier did you go
through calculations based on the methods similar to the ones we are
going through here today to try to make projections as to how much DNA
would be on these various swatches?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right. May I proceed? So the assumption, for purposes
of making estimates that the amount of DNA one would find on swatches
would be randomly distributed, is the kind of assumption forensic DNA
analysts such as yourself make when trying to make reasonable
projections about what exists on samples?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* May I proceed, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* Proceed.

*MR. SCHECK:* I forget, I'm sorry, it is painstaking, but what are we up
to? 50?

*MR. SIMS:* I think we are on 50.

*MR. SCHECK:* Only two more.

*MR. SIMS:* Excuse me.

*MR. SCHECK:* Let us assume--you--your slot-blot estimate was 1.94
nanograms.

*MR. SIMS:* That sounds correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* If you assume that you extracted 16 percent of the total
sample--

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SCHECK:* --would you project that the total human DNA in the sample
would be about 12.1 nanograms?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, it is irrelevant.

*THE COURT:* Overruled.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And let's make it easy on sample 52. Umm--well, I might
have asked this before. Let's try it this way: If Robin Cotton had
testified that the amount of human DNA that was used for the RFLP
testing at Cellmark for sample 52 was 25 nanograms of human DNA, would
that be consistent with your calculations that--with your slot-blot of
3.64 nanograms based on the assumption that you had 11.5 percent of the
sample?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, calls for hearsay. It misstates Dr. Cotton's
testimony.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* If you assume that you had 11.5 percent of the total
sample, and taking into consideration that your slot-blot was 3.64
nanograms, would the total amount of human DNA in sample 52 be something
on the order of 31.6 nanograms?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection, improper hypothetical.

*THE COURT:* Sustained as stated.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*THE COURT:* You forgot the assumption about uniformity.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes, I assumed that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Assuming of course in this projection that the biological
specimen was uniformly--randomly distributed over the swatches.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Is that right?

*MR. SIMS:* Okay. Well, can I do the calculation now?

*MR. SCHECK:* Do it.

*MR. SIMS:* I want to take a minute with this one.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* Did you say 31.6 nanograms? That is what I came up with also.

*MR. SCHECK:* Okay. Remember that is the total, right?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I don't know that. I'm assuming that.

*MR. SCHECK:* Assuming?

*MR. SIMS:* Your 11 and a half percent.

*THE COURT:* Wait, wait. Let him finish his answer. Let him finish
answering the question--asking the question. What is your answer?

*MR. SCHECK:* My question simply is--

*THE COURT:* No, no. He was in the middle of an answer.

*MR. SIMS:* The assumption was that we had 11 and a half percent of the
sample.

*MR. SCHECK:* That's correct. Now, you in fact used 3.64 nanograms yourself?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, we extracted that much, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Yes. Okay. Now, you recovered--you tested the amount of
human DNA found on item--LAPD item 45, a handrail?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Blood on the handrail, correct?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* You haven't even typed that yet, have you?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct, we have not.

*MR. SCHECK:* But you did a quantitation on it?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, we did.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you got from those swatches human DNA of 2.6 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* Give me one minute, please.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* That was item no. 51?

*MR. SCHECK:* No, 45.

*MR. SIMS:* 45.

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, object. This is beyond the scope. There has
been no testimony about that item.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, it will be connected up in a second.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* You did typing of sample 117 from the back gate?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that substrate is--have you seen--you were shown
pictures of that on direct examination?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, I believe I was.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is the gate?

*MR. SIMS:* The rear gate, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Rear gate. Rust on that rear gate?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't recall seeing rust that clearly, but I would have to
see the photo again. I looked at it mainly for the location. That was
the main thing in my mind.

*MR. SCHECK:* Dirt on that rear gate?

*MR. SIMS:* I don't know. Again I didn't look--I looked at it for the
location of the blood drop. That was my interest. I didn't study the
substrate in particular.

*MR. SCHECK:* You have been able to conduct RFLP testing on the sample
from the rear gate recovered on July 3rd and got seven probes from it?

*MR. HARMON:* Your Honor, I'm objecting.

*MR. SCHECK:* To this point?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection.

*THE COURT:* Objection. Legal basis?

*MR. HARMON:* Beyond the scope. We have talked about this yesterday.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your Honor, he asked about RFLP testing of the rear gate.

*THE COURT:* I'm going to sustain the objection. I don't recollect. I
will have to check my notes.

*MR. SCHECK:* All right.

*MR. HARMON:* Would you caution the jury, please, your Honor?

*THE COURT:* No, no.

*MR. SCHECK:* You did quantitative calculations projecting the amount of
DNA from swatches in the rear gate for purposes of your PCR-based testing?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And you got three swatches from 117, the rear gate?

*MR. SIMS:* That's correct.

*MR. SCHECK:* Weighing 6.2 milligrams?

*MR. SIMS:* That sounds about right, but let me check that.

/(Brief pause.)/

//*MR. SIMS:* 6.2 milligrams, yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the weight you extracted was four milligrams?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* Which would be 65 percent of the total?

*MR. SIMS:* Yes.

*MR. SCHECK:* And the total amount of human DNA that you extracted was
108 nanograms?

*MR. SIMS:* That sounds about right. I remember it being about a hundred
nanograms.

*MR. SCHECK:* So based on assumption of random distribution you would
project a total of 166 nanograms in 117?

*MR. HARMON:* Objection. Random is not the same as uniform, your Honor.

*THE COURT:* Sustained.

*MR. SCHECK:* Would it be your best estimate that in the swatches you
have, you will have something on the order of 166 nanograms in sample 117?

*MR. SIMS:* 166 sound a little high, but it is in there. 150 I will give
you right off the top of my head.

*MR. SCHECK:* And that is a sample that was collected on July 3rd?

*MR. SIMS:* Wait. I'm sorry. Did you say 116 now or 117?

*MR. SCHECK:* 117.

*MR. SIMS:* 117, okay. Then yes, 150 nanograms sounds about right.

*MR. SCHECK:* I said 166.

*MR. SIMS:* I think I thought I heard you say 116.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, 166.

*MR. SIMS:* Okay.

*MR. SCHECK:* Something on that order.

*MR. SIMS:* No. I thought I heard you say item no. 116.

*MR. SCHECK:* No, no. I'm talking about item 117.

*MR. SIMS:* 117.

*MR. SCHECK:* Your best estimate would be on the order of 166 nanograms
of human DNA?

*MR. SIMS:* Well, I said about 150 off the top of my head, but yes, you
are in the right ballpark.

*MR. SCHECK:* And when you asked, through your quantitative method, the
quality of the DNA from 117, you did not find the kind of bacterial
degradation that you found on those Bundy drops, did you?

*MR. SIMS:* No.

*MR. SCHECK:* That is it.

*THE COURT:* That is it?

*MR. SCHECK:* For the day. That is the end of my line on this. I'm going
into something different.

*THE COURT:* All right.

*MR. SCHECK:* I can't do it in two minutes.

*THE COURT:* All right. All right. All right. Ladies and gentlemen we
are going to take our recess for the afternoon. Please remember all of
my admonitions to you. Don't discuss the case amongst yourselves, don't
form any opinions about the case, don't conduct any deliberations until
the matter has been submitted to you. Also, do not allow anybody to
communicate with you with regard to the case. As far as the jury is
concerned, we will stand in recess until nine o'clock. All right. Mr.
Sims, you can step down. Tomorrow morning, 8:45.

*MR. SIMS:* Yes, your Honor.

/(At 4:30 P.M. an adjournment was taken until, Friday, May 19, 1995,
9:00 A.M.)/

//*SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES*

**Department no. 103 Hon. Lance A. Ito, Judge

The People of the State of California,)

Plaintiff,)

Vs.) no. Ba097211)

Orenthal James Simpson,)

Defendant.)

Reporter's transcript of proceedings Thursday, May 18, 1995

Volume 149 pages 28090 through 28353, inclusive

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*APPEARANCES:*

Janet M. Moxham, CSR #4588 Christine M. Olson, CSR #2378 official reporters

*FOR THE PEOPLE:* Gil Garcetti, District Attorney by: Marcia R. Clark,
William W. Hodgman, Christopher A. Darden, Cheri A. Lewis, Rockne P.
Harmon, George W. Clarke, Scott M. Gordon Lydia C. Bodin, Hank M.
Goldberg, Alan Yochelson and Darrell S. Mavis, Brian R. Kelberg, and
Kenneth E. Lynch, Deputies 18-000 Criminal Courts Building 210 West
Temple Street Los Angeles, California 90012

*FOR THE DEFENDANT:* Robert L. Shapiro, Esquire Sara L. Caplan, Esquire
2121 Avenue of the Stars 19th floor Los Angeles, California 90067
Johnnie L. Cochran, Jr., Esquire by: Carl E. Douglas, Esquire Shawn
Snider Chapman, Esquire 4929 Wilshire Boulevard Suite 1010 Los Angeles,
California 90010 Gerald F. Uelmen, Esquire Robert Kardashian, Esquire
Alan Dershowitz, Esquire F. Lee Bailey, Esquire Barry Scheck, Esquire
Peter Neufeld, Esquire Robert D. Blasier, Esquire William C. Thompson,
Esquire

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_I*N D E X*_

__Index for volume 149 pages 28090 - 28353 day date session page vol.

Thursday May 18, 1995 A.M. 28090 149 P.M. 28208 149

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*LEGEND:* Ms. Clark-mc Mr. Hodgman-h Mr. Darden d Mr. Kahn-k Mr.
Goldberg-gb Mr. Gordon-g Mr. Shapiro-s Mr. Cochran-c Mr. Douglas-cd Mr.
Bailey-b Mr. Uelmen-u Mr. Scheck-bs Mr. Neufeld-n

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*CHRONOLOGICAL INDEX* of witnesses

*PEOPLE'S* witnesses direct cross redirect recross vol.

Sims, Gary 149 (Resumed) 28103rh (Resumed) 28005rh

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*ALPHABETICAL INDEX* of witnesses witnesses direct cross redirect
recross vol.

Sims, Gary 149 (Resumed) 28103rh (Resumed) 28005rh

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

_E*XHIBITS*_

__*COURT'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. page vol.

12 - Articles 28099 149 entitled "Chinese Population Data on the
PCR-Based Loci HLA DQ-Alpha, Low-Density-Lipoprotein Receptor,
Glycephorin A, Hemoglobin Gamma G, D7S8, and Group Specific Component,"
"Swiss Population Data on Loci HLA DQX, LDLR, GYPA, HBGG, D728, GC, and
DS180," "Validation of Population Studies of the Loci, LDLR, GYPA, HBDG,
D7S8 and GC (PM loci) and HLA-DQ Using a Multiplex Amplification and
Typing Procedure"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*PEOPLE'S* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

273 - Photograph of 28209 149 an electrophoretogram

218-A - 23-Page document 28187 149 entitled "analyzed evidence report"

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

*DEFENSE* for in exhibit identification evidence page vol. Page vol.

1159-A thru I - 28226 149 9 prints from slide presentation entitled
"cross-contamination factors"

1160-A thru f - 28316 149 photographs depicting the testing of evidence
by Gary Sims

